---
layout: post
title: "NBER January 21, 2019"
description: ""
category: 经济学
tags: [工作论文]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<p><strong>[Noisy Memory and Over-Reaction to News](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25478.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>Rava Azeredo da Silveira&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Michael Woodford&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We propose a model of optimal decision making subject to a memory constraint. The constraint is a limit on the complexity of memory measured using Shannon’s mutual information, as in models of rational inattention; but our theory differs from that of Sims (2003) in not assuming costless memory of past cognitive states. We show that the model implies that both forecasts and actions will exhibit idiosyncratic random variation; that beliefs will fluctuate forever around the rational-expectations (perfect-memory) beliefs with a variance that does not fall to zero; and that more recent news will be given disproportionate weight. The model provides a simple explanation for a number of features of expectations in laboratory and field settings, most notably apparent over-reaction of both elicited forecasts and spending decisions to transitory fluctuations in economic time series.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25478
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>[Markets for Financial Innovation](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25477.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>Ana Babus&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kinda Cheryl Hachem&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We propose a model where both security design and market structure are endogenously determined to explain why standardized securities are frequently traded in decentralized markets. We find that issuers offer debt contracts in thinner markets where investors have a higher price impact, and equity in deeper markets. In turn, investors accept to trade in thinner markets to elicit less variable securities from issuers if gains from trade are small. Otherwise, investors choose to trade in deeper markets where their price impact is minimized. We also show that there exist equilibrium market structures in which both debt and equity are traded.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25477
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>[Has the U.S. Wage Phillips Curve Flattened? A Semi-Structural Exploration](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25476.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>Jordi Galí&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Luca Gambetti&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Unconditional reduced form estimates of a conventional wage Phillips curve for the U.S. economy point to a decline in its slope coefficient in recent years, as well as a shrinking role of lagged price inflation in the determination of wage inflation. We provide estimates of a conditional wage Phillips curve, based on a structural decomposition of wage, price and unemployment data generated by a VAR with time varying coefficients, identified by a combination of long-run and sign restrictions. Our estimates show that the key qualitative findings from the unconditional reduced form regressions also emerge in the conditional evidence, suggesting that they are not entirely driven by endogeneity problems or possible changes over time in the importance of of wage markup shocks. The conditional evidence, however, suggests that actual changes in the slope of the wage Phillips curve may not have been as large as implied by the unconditional estimates.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25476
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>[Can a Tiger Change Its Stripes? Reform of Chinese State-Owned Enterprises in the Penumbra of the State](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25475.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>Ann Harrison&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Marshall Meyer&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Peichun Wang&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Linda Zhao&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Minyuan Zhao&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
The majority of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in China were privatized through ownership reforms over the last two decades. Using a comprehensive dataset of all medium and large enterprises in China between 1998 and 2013, we show that privatized SOEs continue to benefit from government support relative to private enterprises.  Compared to private firms that were never state-owned, privatized SOEs are favored by low interest loans and government subsidies. These differences are more salient with the Chinese government’s trillion-dollar stimulus package introduced after the 2008 global financial crisis. Moreover, both SOEs and privatized SOEs significantly under-perform in profitability compared to private firms.  Nevertheless there are clear improvements in performance post-privatization. The tiger can change its stripes; however, the government’s behavior seems to be sticky.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25475
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>[The Effect of Superstition on Health: Evidence from the Taiwanese Ghost Month](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25474.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>Martin Halla&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Chia-Lun Liu&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jin-Tan Liu&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Superstition is a widespread phenomenon. We empirically examine its impact on health-related behavior and health outcomes. We study the case of the Taiwanese Ghost Month. During this period, which is believed to increase the likelihood of bad outcomes, we observe substantial adaptions in health-related behavior. Our identification exploits idiosyncratic variation in the timing of the Ghost Month across Gregorian calendar years. Using high-quality administrative data, we document for the period of the Ghost Months reductions in mortality, hospital admissions, and births. While the effect on mortality is a quantum effect, the latter two effects reflect changes in the timing of events. These findings suggest potential benefits of including emotional and cultural factors in public health policy.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25474
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>[Active Choice, Implicit Defaults, and the Incentive to Choose](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25473.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>John Beshears&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;James J. Choi&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;David Laibson&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Brigitte C. Madrian&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Home-delivered prescriptions have no delivery charge and lower copayments than prescriptions picked up at a pharmacy. Nevertheless, when home delivery is offered on an opt-in basis, the take-up rate is only 6%. We study a program that makes active choice of either home delivery or pharmacy pick-up a requirement for insurance eligibility. The program introduces an implicit default for those who don’t make an active choice: pharmacy pick-up without insurance subsidies. Under this program, 42% of eligible employees actively choose home delivery, 39% actively choose pharmacy pick-up, and 19% make no active choice and are assigned the implicit default. Individuals who financially benefit most from home delivery are more likely to choose it. Those who benefit least from insurance subsidies are more likely to make no active choice and lose those subsidies. The implicit default incentivizes people to make an active choice, thereby playing a key role in choice architecture.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25473
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>[An Extra Year to Learn English? Early Grade Retention and the Human Capital Development of English Learners](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25472.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>David N. Figlio&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Umut Özek&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
In this study, we use microdata from 12 Florida county-level school districts and a regression discontinuity design to examine the effects of early grade retention on the short-, medium-, and long-term outcomes of English learners. We find that retention in the third-grade substantially improves the English skills of these students, reducing the time to proficiency by half and decreasing the likelihood of taking a remedial English course in middle school by one-third. Grade retention also roughly doubles the likelihood of taking an advanced course in math and science in middle school, and more than triples the likelihood of taking college credit-bearing courses in high school for English learners. We also find that these benefits are larger for foreign born students, students with higher latent human capital in third grade as proxied by their math scores, students whose first language is Spanish, and students in lower-poverty elementary schools.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25472
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>[Measuring Productivity: Lessons from Tailored Surveys and Productivity Benchmarking](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25471.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>David Atkin&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Amit Khandelwal&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Adam Osman&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We use tailored surveys and benchmarking in the flat-weave rug industry to better understand the shortcomings of standard productivity measures. TFPQ performs poorly because of variation in product specifications across firms. Controlling for specifications aligns TFPQ with lab benchmarks. We also collect quality metrics to construct quality productivity (the ability to produce quality given inputs) and find substantial dispersion across firms. This motivates interest in multi-dimensional productivity, or capability. As quality productivity is negatively correlated with TFPQ, TFPR may perform better at capturing capabilities in settings where better firms make products with more demanding specifications that have greater input requirements.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25471
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>[How Prevalent Is Downward Rigidity in Nominal Wages? Evidence from Payroll Records in Washington State](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25470.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>Ekaterina S. Jardim&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Gary Solon&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jacob L. Vigdor&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
For more than 80 years, many macroeconomic analyses have been premised on the assumption that workers’ nominal wage rates cannot be cut.  The U.S. evidence on this assumption has been inconclusive because of distortions from reporting error in household surveys.  Following a British literature, we reconsider the issue with more accurate wage data from the payroll records of most employers in the State of Washington over the period 2005-2015.  For every one of the 40 four-quarters-apart periods for which we observe year-to-year wage changes, we find that at least 20 percent of job stayers experience nominal wage reductions.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25470
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>[China vs. U.S.: IMS Meets IPS](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25469.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>Emmanuel Farhi&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Matteo Maggiori&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Currently both the International Monetary System (IMS) and the International Price Systems (IPS) are dominated by the U.S. The emergence of China, both as reserve currency and as a currency of invoicing, is likely to disrupt this status quo. We provide a framework to understand the forces that will shape this transition and identify sources of instability. We highlight the risk of an abrupt shift triggered by a run on the dollar.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25469
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>[Age-Based Property Tax Exemptions](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25468.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>H. Spencer Banzhaf&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Ryan Mickey&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Carlianne E. Patrick&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Many local jurisdictions offer property tax exemptions or similar concessions to older citizens.  Such exemptions represent substantial intergenerational transfers and may have important implications for local public finances.  The consequences of age-based property tax exemptions depend upon the extent to which they influence households' location decisions, housing tenure decisions, and housing consumption.  We provide the first evidence on (long-term) changes in household composition and housing consumption attributable to local, age-based property tax exemptions.  We construct a unique database of local property tax exemptions in Georgia covering 100 years of county, school district, and selected city property tax laws.  We use these data to estimate the effect of age-based property tax exemptions on the number of older home-owners from 1970-2010 attributable to the exemption.  Using a "quadruple-difference" estimation strategy, we find a significant increase in older homeowners attributable to the combined effect of age-based property tax exemptions on location decisions and housing tenure.  We also find evidence that age-based property tax exemptions increase housing consumption among older households.  Finally, we estimate a sorting model to estimate the equilibrium effects of different tax policies.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25468
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>[Securities laws and the choice between loans and bonds for highly levered firms](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25467.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>Robert Prilmeier&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;René M. Stulz&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
In contrast to bonds, levered loans do not require SEC registration. We show that this distinction plays an important role in firms’ choice between funding through loans and bonds and helps understand why the market share of cov-lite loans has increased so much. Compared to cov-heavy loans, cov-lite loans are close substitutes for bonds in that they have similar covenants, have tighter bid-ask spreads, have more trading, and are more likely to be used to refinance bonds than cov-heavy loans. SEC-reporting firms that borrow using cov-lite loans are more likely to deregister subsequently. Non-reporting firms are more likely to borrow through highly levered loans than through bonds, even though maturities, amounts, covenants, and ratings are similar between the two sources of funding. As expected from theory, we find that the liquidity advantage of cov-lite loans over cov-heavy loans is highest for non-registered issuers where information asymmetries are greater.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25467
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>[Dynamism Diminished: The Role of Housing Markets and Credit Conditions](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25466.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>Steven J. Davis&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;John C. Haltiwanger&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
The Great Recession and its aftermath saw the worst relative performance of young firms in at least 35 years. More broadly, as we show, young-firm activity shares move strongly with local economic conditions and local house price growth. In this light, we assess the effects of housing prices and credit supply on young-firm activity. Our panel IV estimation on MSA-level data yields large effects of local house price changes on local young-firm employment growth and employment shares and a separate, smaller role for locally exogenous shifts in bank lending supply. A novel test shows that house price effects work through wealth, liquidity and collateral effects on the propensity to start new firms and expand young ones. Aggregating local effects to the national level, housing market ups and downs play a major role – as transmission channel and driving force – in medium-run fluctuations in young-firm employment shares in recent decades. The great housing bust after 2006 largely drove the cyclical collapse of young-firm activity during the Great Recession, reinforced by a contraction in bank loan supply. As we also show, when the young-firm activity share falls (rises), local employment shifts strongly away from (towards) younger and less-educated workers.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25466
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>[Minding Your Ps and Qs:  Going from Micro to Macro in Measuring Prices and Quantities](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25465.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>Gabriel Ehrlich&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;John C. Haltiwanger&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Ron S. Jarmin&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;David Johnson&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Matthew D. Shapiro&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Key macro indicators such as output, productivity, and inflation are based on a complex system across multiple statistical agencies using different samples and different levels of aggregation.   The Census Bureau collects nominal sales, the Bureau of Labor Statistics collects prices, and the Bureau of Economic Analysis constructs nominal and real GDP using these data and other sources. The price and quantity data are integrated at a high level of aggregation.  This paper explores alternative methods for re-engineering key national output and price indices using item-level data.  Such re-engineering offers the promise of greatly improved key economic indicators along many dimensions.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25465
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>[Aggregation and the Gravity Equation](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25464.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>Stephen J. Redding&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;David E. Weinstein&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
One of the most successful empirical relationships in international trade is the gravity equation, which relates bilateral trade flows between an origin and destination to bilateral trade frictions, origin characteristics, and destination characteristics. A key decision for researchers in estimating this relationship is the level of aggregation, since the gravity equation is log linear, whereas aggregation involves summing the level rather than the log level of trade flows. In this paper, we derive an exact Jensen's inequality correction term for the gravity equation in a nested constant elasticity of substitution (CES) import demand system, such that a log-linear gravity equation holds exactly for each nest of this demand system. We use this result to decompose the effect of distance on bilateral trade in the aggregate gravity equation into the contribution of a number of different terms from sectoral gravity equations. We show that changes in sectoral composition make a quantitatively relevant contribution towards the aggregate effect of distance, particularly for more disaggregated definitions of sectors.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25464
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>[Fiscal Rules and Discretion under Limited Enforcement](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25463.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>Marina Halac&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Pierre Yared&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We study a fiscal policy model in which the government is present-biased towards public spending. Society chooses a fiscal rule to trade off the benefit of committing the government to not overspend against the benefit of granting it flexibility to react to privately observed shocks to the value of spending. Unlike prior work, we examine rules under limited enforcement: the government has full policy discretion and can only be incentivized to comply with a rule via the use of penalties which are joint and bounded. We show that optimal incentives must be bang-bang. Moreover, under a distributional condition, the optimal rule is a maximally enforced deficit limit, triggering the largest feasible penalty whenever violated. Violation optimally occurs under high enough shocks if and only if available penalties are weak and such shocks are rare. If the rule is self-enforced in a dynamic setting, penalties take the form of temporary overspending.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25463
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>[Global Wealth Inequality](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25462.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>Gabriel Zucman&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
This article reviews the recent literature on the dynamics of global wealth inequality. I first reconcile available estimates of wealth inequality in the United States. Both surveys and tax data show that wealth inequality has increased dramatically since the 1980s, with a top 1% wealth share around 40% in 2016 vs. 25–30% in the 1980s. Second, I discuss the fast growing literature on wealth inequality across the world. Evidence points towards a rise in global wealth concentration: for China, Europe, and the United States combined, the top 1% wealth share has increased from 28% in 1980 to 33% today, while the bottom 75% share hovered around 10%. Recent studies, however, may under-estimate the level and rise of inequality, as financial globalization makes it increasingly hard to measure wealth at the top. I discuss how new data sources (leaks from financial institutions, tax amnesties, and macroeconomic statistics of tax havens) can be leveraged to better capture the wealth of the rich.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25462
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>[Beating the Odds: Black Jockeys in the Kentucky Derby, 1870-1911](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25461.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>Michael Leeds&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Hugh Rockoff&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
The Kentucky Derby is the premier American horse race. The first race was held in 1875 and 13 of the 15 jockeys were African Americans. African American jockeys continued to play an important role until the turn of the 19th century when they were forced from the Kentucky Derby and the other big American races, victims of the rising tide of Jim Crow. This paper uses a new data set based on the odds on all the entries in the Kentucky Derby between 1875 and 1915 to examine the willingness of owners and trainers to hire African American jockeys and the willingness of fans to bet on them.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25461
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>[Addressing Cross-National Generalizability in Educational Impact Evaluation](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25460.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>Eric A. Hanushek&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
The evaluation of educational programs has accelerated dramatically in the past quarter century.  While such evaluations were once almost exclusively conducted in the U.S., they have broadened dramatically across many countries of the world.  At the same time, the methodology has improved, strengthening considerably the internal validity of various studies.  We must now consider what conclusions can be drawn from the growing wealth of international results.  In particular, available cross-national studies on a variety of topics suggest using caution when generalizing results, because the results vary systematically with a number of institutional characteristics of the different countries that are not explicitly considered in within-country analyses.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25460
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>[Corporate Debt, Firm Size and Financial Fragility in Emerging Markets](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25459.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>Laura Alfaro&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Gonzalo Asis&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Anusha Chari&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Ugo Panizza&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
The post-Global Financial Crisis period shows a surge in corporate leverage in emerging markets and a number of countries with deteriorated corporate financial fragility indicators (Altman’s Z-score). Firm size plays a critical role in the relationship between leverage, firm fragility and exchange rate movements in emerging markets. While the relationship between firm-leverage and distress scores varies over time, the relationship between firm size and corporate vulnerability is relatively time-invariant. All else equal, large firms in emerging markets are more financially vulnerable and also systemically important. Consistent with the granular origins of aggregate fluctuations in Gabaix (2011), idiosyncratic shocks to the sales growth of large firms are positively and significantly correlated with GDP growth in our emerging markets sample. Relatedly, the negative impact of exchange rate shocks has a more acute impact on the sales growth of the more highly levered large firms.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25459
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>[On the Direct and Indirect Real Effects of Credit Supply Shocks](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25458.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>Laura Alfaro&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Manuel García-Santana&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Enrique Moral-Benito&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We consider the real effects of bank lending shocks and how they permeate the economy through buyer-supplier linkages. We combine administrative data on all firms in Spain with a matched bank-firm-loan dataset on the universe of corporate loans for 2003-2013 to identify bank-specific shocks for each year using methods from the matched employer-employee literature. We construct firm-specific exogenous credit supply shocks and estimate their direct and indirect effects on real activity using firm-specific measures of upstream and downstream exposure. Credit supply shocks have sizable direct and downstream propagation effects on investment and output throughout the period, especially during the 2008-2009 global financial crisis. In terms of mechanisms, trade credit extended by suppliers and price adjustments play a role in accounting for downstream propagation of financial shocks.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25458
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>[Local Fiscal Multipliers and Fiscal Spillovers in the United States](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25457.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>Alan J. Auerbach&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Yuriy Gorodnichenko&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Daniel Murphy&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We estimate local fiscal multipliers and spillovers for the United States using a rich dataset based on U.S. Department of Defense contracts and a variety of outcome variables relating to income and employment.  We find strong positive spillovers across locations and industries.  Both backward linkages and general equilibrium effects (e.g., income multipliers) contribute to the positive spillovers. Geographical spillovers appear to dissipate fairly quickly with distance. Our evidence points to the relevance of Keynesian-type models that feature excess capacity.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25457
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>[Inference on Winners](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25456.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>Isaiah Andrews&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Toru Kitagawa&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Adam McCloskey&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Many empirical questions can be cast as inference on a parameter selected through optimization.  For example, researchers may be interested in the effectiveness of the best policy found in a randomized trial, or the best-performing investment strategy based on historical data.  Such settings give rise to a winner's curse, where conventional estimates are biased and conventional confidence intervals are unreliable.  This paper develops optimal confidence sets and median-unbiased estimators that are valid conditional on the parameter selected and so overcome this winner's curse. If one requires validity only on average over target parameters that might have been selected, we develop hybrid procedures that combine conditional and projection confidence sets to offer further performance gains relative to existing alternatives.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25456
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>[Digital Cash: Principles & Practical Steps](https://www.nber.org/papers/w25455.pdf)</strong></p>
<p>Michael D. Bordo&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Andrew T. Levin&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
If the global economy encounters another severe adverse shock in coming years, will major central banks be able to provide sufficient monetary stimulus to preserve price stability and foster economic recovery? Our empirical analysis indicates that the Federal Reserve’s QE3 program was not an effective form of monetary stimulus and that unconventional monetary policies undertaken in the Eurozone and in Japan have been similarly limited in impact. We then consider how digital cash could 