---
layout: post
title: "NBER April  1, 2019"
description: ""
category: 经济学
tags: [工作论文]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<p><strong>Policy News and Stock Market Volatility</strong></p>
<p>Scott R. Baker&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Nicholas Bloom&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Steven J. Davis&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kyle J. Kost&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We create a newspaper-based Equity Market Volatility (EMV) tracker that moves with the VIX and with the realized volatility of returns on the S&P 500. Parsing the underlying text, we find that 72 percent of EMV articles discuss the Macroeconomic Outlook, and 44 percent discuss Commodity Markets. Policy news is another major source of volatility: 35 percent of EMV articles refer to Fiscal Policy (mostly Tax Policy), 30 percent discuss Monetary Policy, 25 percent refer to one or more forms of Regulation, and 13 percent mention National Security matters. The contribution of particular policy areas fluctuates greatly over time. Trade Policy news, for example, went from a virtual nonfactor in equity market volatility to a leading source after Donald Trump’s election and especially after the intensification of U.S-China trade tensions. The share of EMV articles with attention to government policy rises over time, reaching its peak in 2017-18. We validate our measurement approach in various ways. For example, tailoring our EMV tracker to news about petroleum markets yields a measure that rises and falls with the implied and realized volatility of oil prices.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25720
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Labor Market Power</strong></p>
<p>David W. Berger&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kyle F. Herkenhoff&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Simon Mongey&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
What are the welfare implications of labor market power? We provide an answer to this question in two steps: (1) we develop a tractable quantitative, general equilibrium, oligopsony model of the labor market, (2) we estimate key parameters using within-firm-state, across-market differences in wage and employment responses to state corporate tax changes in U.S. Census data. We validate the model against recent evidence on productivity-wage pass-through, and new measurements of the distribution of local market concentration. The model implies welfare losses from labor market power that range from 2.9 to 8.0 percent of lifetime consumption. However, despite large contemporaneous losses, labor market power has not contributed to the declining labor share. Finally, we show that minimum wages can deliver moderate, and limited, welfare gains by reallocating workers from smaller to larger, more productive firms.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25719
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Testing the Effectiveness of Consumer Financial Disclosure: Experimental Evidence from Savings Accounts</strong></p>
<p>Paul D. Adams&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Stefan Hunt&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Christopher Palmer&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Redis Zaliauskas&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Disclosure—the practice of providing information to support decision making—has been widely mandated in public policy but is routinely ignored by consumers and subject to obfuscation by firms. Yet most evidence on the effectiveness of consumer financial disclosure stems from lab experiments where subjects do not have competing demands on their attention or from analysis of borrowing decisions where optimality is hard to characterize. In this paper, we provide field evidence from randomized-controlled trials with 124,000 savings account holders at five UK depositories. Treated consumers received varying degrees of salient information about alternative products, including one with their current provider that strictly dominated their current savings product. Motivated by work on search frictions, switching costs, and inattention, our experimental variation is designed to allow us to examine the importance of each in inhibiting effective disclosure. Despite the switching process taking 15 minutes on average and the moderate size of average potential gains (£123 in the first year), attention to disclosure is low, significantly limiting its potential effectiveness, motivating explicit disclosure-design rules, and demonstrating the nature of deposit stickiness.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25718
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Investor Ideology</strong></p>
<p>Patrick Bolton&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Tao Li&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Enrichetta Ravina&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Howard L. Rosenthal&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We estimate institutional investor preferences based on their proxy voting records in publicly listed Russell 3000 firms. We employ a spatial model of proxy voting, the W-NOMINATE method for scaling legislatures, and map institutional investors onto a left-right dimension based on their votes for fiscal year 2012. The far-left are socially responsible and the far-right are “money conscious” investors. Significant ideological differences reflect an absence of shareholder unanimity. The proxy adviser ISS, similar to a political leader, makes voting recommendations that place it in the center; to the left of most mutual funds. Public pension funds and other investors on the left support a more social and environment-friendly orientation of the firm and fewer executive compensation proposals. A second dimension reflects a more traditional governance view, with management disciplinarian investors,  the proxy adviser Glass-Lewis among them, pitted against more management friendly ones.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25717
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Monetary Policy and Exchange Rate Returns: Time-Varying Risk Regimes</strong></p>
<p>Charles W. Calomiris&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Harry Mamaysky&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We develop an empirical model of exchange rate returns, applied separately to samples of developed and developing economies’ currencies against the dollar.  We incorporate into this model natural-language-based measures of the monetary policy stances of the large global central banks, and show that these become increasingly important in the post-crisis era.  We find an important spillover effect from the monetary policy of the Bank of England, the Bank of Japan and the ECB to the exchange rate returns of other currencies against the dollar.  Furthermore, we find that the relation between a developed country’s interest rate differential relative to the dollar (carry) and the future returns from investing in its currency switches sign from the pre- to the post-crisis subperiod, while for emerging markets the carry variable is never a significant predictor of returns. The high profit from the carry trade for emerging market currencies reflects persistent country characteristics likely reflective of risk rather than the interest differential per se. While measures of global monetary policy stance forecast exchange rate returns against the dollar, they do not predict exchange rate returns against other base currencies. Results regarding returns from carry, however, are insensitive to the choice of the base currency.  We construct a no-arbitrage pricing model which reconciles many of our empirical findings.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25714
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Patent Troll: Benign Middleman or Stick-Up Artist?</strong></p>
<p>David S. Abrams&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Ufuk Akcigit&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Gokhan Oz&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jeremy G. Pearce&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
How do non-practicing entities ("Patent Trolls") impact innovation and technological progress?  Although this question has important implications for industrial policy, little direct evidence about it exists. This paper provides new theoretical and empirical evidence to fill that gap. In the process, we inform a debate that has historically portrayed non-practicing entities (NPEs) as either "benign middlemen", who help to reallocate IP to where it is most productive, or "stick-up artists", who exploit the patent system to extract rents and thereby hurt innovation. We employ unprecedented access to NPE-derived patent and financial data, as well as a novel model that guides our data analysis. We find that NPEs acquire patents from small firms and those that are more litigation-prone, as well as ones that are not core to the seller's business. When NPEs license patents, those that generate higher fees are closer to the licensee's business and more likely to be litigated. We also find that downstream innovation drops in fields where patents have been acquired by NPEs. Finally, our numerical analysis shows that the existence of NPEs encourages upstream innovation and discourages downstream innovation.  The overall impact of NPEs depends on the share of patent infringements that come from non-innovating producers. Our results provide some support for both views of NPEs and suggests that a more nuanced perspective on NPEs and additional empirical work are needed to make informed policy decisions.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25713
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Relinquishing Riches: Auctions vs Informal Negotiations in Texas Oil and Gas Leasing</strong></p>
<p>Thomas R. Covert&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Richard L. Sweeney&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
This paper compares outcomes from informally negotiated oil and gas leases to those awarded via centralized auction. We use data on all contractual characteristics and production outcomes for a class of state-owned mineral rights overlying newly discovered shale formations in Texas, between 2005 and 2016. On roughly three quarters of this land, the Texas Relinquishment Act of 1919 authorizes private individuals who own surface-only rights to negotiate mineral leases on behalf of the public in exchange for half of the proceeds.  The remainder are allocated via centralized auctions.  Using variation from this natural experiment, we find that almost a century after leasing mechanisms were assigned, auctioned leases generate 67% larger up-front payments than negotiated leases do.  The two mechanisms also allocate mineral rights to different oil and gas companies, and leases allocated by auction are 44% more productive. These results are consistent with theoretical intuitions that centralized, formal mechanisms, like auctions, outperform decentralized and informal mechanisms, in both seller revenues and allocative efficiency. Our findings have important implications for the more than $3 trillion of minerals owned by private individuals in the US, the vast majority of which transact in informal and decentralized settings.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25712
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Income Elasticity for Nutrition: Evidence from Unconditional Cash Transfers in Kenya</strong></p>
<p>Ingvild Almås&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Johannes Haushofer&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jeremy P. Shapiro&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We use a randomized controlled trial to study the effect of large income changes, through unconditional cash transfers, on the food share of expenditures and consumption of calories among poor households in rural Kenya. Our preferred estimate of the food elasticity following USD 709 transfers is 0.78 for expenditure, 0.60 for calories, and 1.29 for protein. Experimental elasticities are lower than cross-sectional estimates. These estimates are unaffected by spillovers or price changes at the village level: results are similar with vs. without an almost ideal demand system, and with a control group in treatment vs. control villages.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25711
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Capital Controls as Macro-prudential Policy in a Large Open Economy</strong></p>
<p>J. Scott Davis&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Michael B. Devereux&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
The use of international capital flow controls has become increasingly popular in academic and policy circles. But almost all the recent literature studies the case of a small economy, ignoring the spillover effects of capital controls to the rest of the world. This paper re-examines the case for capital controls in a large open economy, where domestic financial constraints may bind following a large negative shock. We consider both ex-ante capital controls (prudential) and ex-post controls (crisis management). In a large open economy, there is a tension between the desire to tax capital inflows to manipulate the terms-of-trade and tax capital outflows for either prudential or crisis management purposes. When capital controls are chosen non-cooperatively, we show that ex-post capital controls are unsuccessful in alleviating financial constraints in a crisis, and ex-ante capital controls are unsuccessful at reducing financial instability before the crisis. Non-cooperative capital controls leave the crisis-hit country even worse off than in an environment with unrestricted capital flows. In addition, a non-cooperative equilibrium with capital controls actually increases the likelihood of a financial crisis occurring. By contrast, capital controls can be effective under international cooperation and can significantly ease financial constraints when applied ex-post for crisis management and reduce the likelihood of a crisis when used ex-ante for prudential purposes.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25710
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Local Labor Markets in Canada and the United States</strong></p>
<p>David Albouy&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Alex Chernoff&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Chandler Lutz&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Casey Warman&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We examine local labor markets in the U.S. and Canada from 1990 to 2011 using comparable household and business data. Wage levels and inequality rise with city population in both countries, albeit less in Canada. Neither country saw wage levels converge despite contrasting migration patterns from/to high-wage areas. Local labor demand shifts raise nominal wages similarly, although in Canada they attract immigrant and highly-skilled workers more, while raising housing costs less. Chinese import competition had a weaker negative impact on manufacturing employment in Canada. These results are consistent with Canada's more redistributive transfer system and larger, more-educated immigrant workforce.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25709
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Birds of a Feather: Estimating the Value of Statistical Life from Dual-Earner Families</strong></p>
<p>Joseph E. Aldy&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Economists have long employed hedonic wage analysis to estimate income-fatality risk trade-offs, but some scholars have raised concerns about systematic measurement error and omitted variable bias in the empirical applications of this model. Recent studies have employed panel methods to remove time-invariant individual-specific characteristics that could induce bias in estimation. In an analogous manner, this paper proposes to exploit assortative matching on risk attitudes within married couples to control for worker characteristics that are unobserved to the econometrician. I develop and implement a modified hedonic wage estimator based on a within-coupled differenced wage equation for full-time working married couples with the Current Population Survey Merged Outgoing Rotation Group over 1996-2002. The key assumption builds on the findings in the assortative matching literature that individuals often marry those who have common traits across many dimensions, including those that may influence worker wages and are correlated with observed occupational fatality risks. This estimator identifies the compensating differential for occupation fatality risk by using within-couple differencing to remove unobserved determinants of risk attitudes and risk-mitigation ability, on which couples match, from the error term. I find that the value of statistical life (VSL) varies from $9 to $13 million (2016$). The within-couple differenced VSL estimates are stable and more robust to variation in specification of the hedonic wage model than conventional, cross-sectional hedonic wage models. I also find that the value of statistical life takes an inverted-U shape with respect to age.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25708
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Wishful Thinking</strong></p>
<p>Andrew Caplin&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;John V. Leahy&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We model agents who get utility from their beliefs and therefore interpret information optimistically. They may exhibit several biases observed in psychological studies such as optimism, procrastination, confirmation bias, polarization, and the endowment effect. In some formulations, they exhibit these biases even though they are subjectively Bayesian. We argue that wishful thinking can lead to reduced saving, can make possible information-based trade, and can generate asset bubbles.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25707
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Capacity Constraints and the Provision of Public Services: The Case of Workers in Public Health Clinics</strong></p>
<p>Matthew C. Harris&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Yinan Liu&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Ian McCarthy&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Unlike in the production of most goods, changes in capacity for labor-intensive services only affect outcomes of interest insofar as service providers change the way they allocate their time in response to those capacity changes.  In this paper, we examine how public sector service providers respond to unexpected capacity constraints in the specific context of public health clinics.  We exploit an exogenous reduction in public health clinic capacity to quantify nurses' trade-off between patients treated and time spent with each patient, which we treat as a proxy for a quality v. quantity decision. We provide evidence that these small and generally insignificant effects on nurse time favor public sector employees prioritizing quality of each interaction over clearing the patient queue.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25706
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Labor Market Shocks and the Demand for Trade Protection: Evidence from Online Surveys</strong></p>
<p>Rafael Di Tella&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dani Rodrik&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We study preferences for government action in response to layoffs resulting from different types of labor-market shocks. We consider the following shocks: technological change, a demand shift, bad management, and three kinds of international outsourcing. Respondents are given a choice among no government action, compensatory transfers, and trade protection. In response to these shocks, support for government intervention generally rises sharply and is heavily biased towards trade protection. Demand for import protection increases significantly in all cases, except for the “bad management” shock. Trade shocks generate more demand for protectionism, and among trade shocks, outsourcing to a developing country elicits greater demand for protectionism than outsourcing to a developed country. The “bad management” shock is the only scenario that induces a desired increase in compensatory transfers. Effects appear to be heterogeneous across subgroups with different political preferences and education. Trump supporters are more protectionist than Clinton supporters, but preferences seem easy to manipulate: Clinton supporters primed with trade shocks are as protectionist as baseline Trump voters. Highlighting labor abuses in the exporting country increases the demand for trade protection by Clinton supporters but not Trump supporters.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25705
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Beyond the Basics: Improving Post-Primary Content Delivery through Classroom Technology</strong></p>
<p>Sabrin A. Beg&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Adrienne M. Lucas&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Waqas Halim&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Umar Saif&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Using an RCT in middle schools in Pakistan, we test the effect of a government-implemented in-class technology and brief teacher training intervention on student achievement in grade level mathematics and science. After only 4 months of exposure, student achievement increased by 0.2-0.3 standard deviations on math and science tests, 52 to 120 percent more than the control group, and students were more likely to pass the provincially standardized high stakes exams. Increased efforts by both students and teachers indicate a complementarity between technology and other inputs in education production. At a scale of 100 schools, this program is extremely cost-effective.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25704
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Industry Anatomy of the Transatlantic Productivity Growth Slowdown</strong></p>
<p>Robert J. Gordon&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Hassan Sayed&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
By merging KLEMS data sets and aggregating over the ten largest Western European nations (EU-10), we are able to compare and contrast productivity growth up through 2015 starting from 1950 in the U.S. and from 1972 in the EU-10. Data are provided at the aggregate level, as well as for 16 industry groups within the total economy and 11 manufacturing sub-industries. The analysis focuses on outcomes over four time intervals: 1950-72, 1972-95, 1995-2005, and 2005-15. We interpret the EU-10 performance as catching up to the U.S. in stages, with its rapid growth of 1950-72 representing a delayed adoption of the inventions that propelled U.S. productivity growth in the first half of the 20th century, and the next EU-10 stage for 1972-95 as imitating the U.S. outcome for 1950-72. We show that both the pace of aggregate productivity growth during 1972-95 for the EU-10 as well as its industrial composition matched very closely the growth record of the U.S. in the previous 1950-72 time interval.</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25703
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Expectations During the U.S. Housing Boom: Inferring Beliefs from Actions</strong></p>
<p>Itzhak Ben-David&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Pascal Towbin&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sebastian Weber&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We assess the role of price expectations in forming the U.S. housing boom in the mid-2000s by studying the dynamics of vacant properties. When agents anticipate price increases, they amass excess capacity. Thus, housing vacancy discriminates between price movements related to shocks to demand for housing services (low vacancy) and expectation shocks (high vacancy). We implement this idea using a structural vector autoregression with sign restrictions. In the aggregate, expectation shocks are the most important factor explaining the boom, immediately followed by mortgage rate shocks. In the cross-section, expectation shocks are the major factor explaining price movements in the Sand States, which experienced unprecedented booms.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25702
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Market Frictions, Arbitrage, and the Capitalization of Amenities</strong></p>
<p>Amine Ouazad&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Romain Rancière&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
The price-amenity arbitrage is a cornerstone of spatial economics, as the response of land and house prices to shifts in the quality of local amenities and public goods is typically used to reveal households' willingness to pay for amenities. With informational, time, and cash constraints, households' ability to arbitrage across locations with different amenities (demographics, crime, education, housing) depends on their ability to compare locations and to finance the swap of houses. Arbitrageurs with deep pockets and better search and matching technology can take advantage of price dispersions and unexploited trade opportunities. We develop a disaggregated search and matching model of the housing market with endogenously bargained prices, identified on transaction-level data from the universe of deeds for 6,400+ neighborhoods of the Chicago metropolitan area, matched with school-level test scores and geocoded criminal offenses. Price-amenity gradients reflect preferences and the capitalization of trading opportunities, which are arbitraged away in the frictionless limit. Thus the time-variation in hedonic pricing coefficients partly reflects the time variation in search and credit frictions. Our model is able to explain that, between the peak of the housing boom and its trough, the sign of the price-amenity gradient flipped, due to the decline in trading opportunities in lower-amenity neighborhoods and due to the lower capitalization of trading opportunities in house prices.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25701
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Intergenerational Effects of a Large Wealth Shock: White Southerners After the Civil War</strong></p>
<p>Philipp Ager&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Leah Platt Boustan&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Katherine Eriksson&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
The nullification of slave-based wealth after the US Civil War (1861-65) was one of the largest episodes of wealth compression in history. We document that white southern households with more slave assets lost substantially more wealth by 1870 relative to households with otherwise similar pre-War wealth levels. Yet, the sons of these slaveholders recovered in income and wealth proxies by 1880, in part by shifting into white collar positions and marrying into higher status families. Their pattern of recovery is most consistent with the importance of social networks in facilitating employment opportunities and access to credit.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25700
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Capitalization as a Two-Part Tariff: The Role of Zoning</strong></p>
<p>H. Spencer Banzhaf&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kyle Mangum&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
This paper shows that the capitalization of local amenities is effectively priced into land via a two-part pricing formula: a “ticket” price paid regardless of the amount of housing service consumed and a “slope” price paid per unit of services. We first show theoretically how tickets arise as an extensive margin price when there are binding constraints on the number of households admitted to a neighborhood. We use a large national dataset of housing transactions, property characteristics, and neighborhood attributes to measure the extent to which local amenities are capitalized in ticket prices vis-a-vis slopes. We find that in most U.S. cities, the majority of neighborhood variation in pricing occurs via tickets, although the importance of tickets rises sharply in the stringency of land development regulations, as predicted by theory. We discuss implications of two-part pricing for efficiency and equity in neighborhood sorting equilibria and for empirical estimates of willingness to pay for non marketed amenities, which generally assume proportional pricing only.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25699
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Risk Management in Financial Institutions</strong></p>
<p>Adriano A. Rampini&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;S. Viswanathan&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Guillaume Vuillemey&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We study risk management in financial institutions using data on hedging of interest rate and foreign exchange risk. We find strong evidence that better capitalized institutions hedge more, controlling for risk exposures, both across institutions and within institutions over time. For identification, we exploit net worth shocks resulting from loan losses due to drops in house prices. Institutions that sustain such shocks reduce hedging significantly relative to otherwise similar institutions. The reduction in hedging is differentially larger among institutions with high real estate exposure. The evidence is consistent with the theory that financial constraints impede both financing and hedging.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25698
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Coming out in America: AIDS, Politics, and Cultural Change</strong></p>
<p>Raquel Fernández&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sahar Parsa&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Martina Viarengo&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
The last few decades witnessed a dramatic change in public opinion towards gay people. This paper uses a difference-in-difference empirical strategy to investigate the hypothesis that the AIDS epidemic and the ensuing endogenous political process led to this transformation. We show that the process of change was discontinuous over time and show suggestive evidence that the '92 presidential election followed by the “don't ask, don't tell” debate led to a change in attitudes. In accordance with our hypothesis, this change was greater in states with high-AIDS rate. Our analysis suggests that if individuals in low-AIDS states had experienced the same average AIDS rate as a high-AIDS state, the change in their approval rate from the '70s to the '90s would have been 50 percent greater.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25697
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Costs of Energy Efficiency Mandates Can Reverse the Sign of Rebound</strong></p>
<p>Don Fullerton&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Chi L. Ta&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Improvements in energy efficiency reduce the cost of consuming services from household cars and appliances and can result in a positive rebound effect that offsets part of the direct energy savings. We use a general equilibrium model to derive analytical expressions that allow us to compare rebound effects from a costless technology shock to those from a costly energy efficiency mandate. We decompose each total effect on the use of energy into components that include a direct efficiency effect, direct rebound effect, and indirect rebound effect. We investigate which factors determine the sign and magnitude of each. We show that rebound from a costless technology shock is generally positive, as in prior literature, but we also show how a pre-existing energy efficiency standard can negate the direct energy savings from the costless technology shock – leaving only the positive rebound effect on energy use. Then we analyze increased stringency of energy efficiency standards, and we show exactly when the increased costs reverse the sign of rebound. Using plausible parameter values in this model, we find that indirect effects can easily outweigh the direct effects captured in partial equilibrium models, and that the total rebound from a costly efficiency mandate is negative.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25696
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>GDP-B: Accounting for the Value of New and Free Goods in the Digital Economy</strong></p>
<p>Erik Brynjolfsson&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Avinash Collis&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;W. Erwin Diewert&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Felix Eggers&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kevin J. Fox&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
The welfare contributions of the digital economy, characterized by the proliferation of new and free goods, are not well-measured in our current national accounts. We derive explicit terms for the welfare contributions of these goods and introduce a new metric, GDP-B which quantifies their benefits, rather than costs. We apply this framework to several empirical examples including Facebook and smartphone cameras and estimate their valuations through incentive compatible choice experiments. For example, including the welfare gains from Facebook would have added between 0.05 and 0.11 percentage points to GDP-B growth per year in the US.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25695
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Relationship Dilemma: Organizational Culture and the Adoption of Credit Scoring Technology in Indian Banking</strong></p>
<p>Prachi Mishra&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Nagpurnanand R. Prabhala&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Raghuram G. Rajan&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Credit scoring was introduced in India in 2007. We study the pace of its adoption by new private banks (NPBs) and state-owned or public sector banks (PSBs). NPBs adopt scoring quickly for all borrowers. PSBs adopt scoring quickly for new borrowers but not for existing borrowers. Instrumental Variable (IV) estimates and counterfactuals using scores available to but not used by PSBs indicate that universal adoption would reduce loan delinquencies significantly. Evidence from old private banks suggests that neither bank size nor government ownership fully explains adoption patterns. Organizational culture, possibly from formative experiences in sheltered markets, explains the patterns of technology adoption.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25694
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>How Do We Choose Our Identity? A Revealed Preference Approach Using Food Consumption</strong></p>
<p>David Atkin&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Eve Colson-Sihra&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Moses Shayo&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Are identities fungible? How do people come to identify with specific groups? This paper proposes a revealed preference approach, using food consumption to uncover ethnic and religious identity choices in India. We first show that consumption of identity goods (e.g. beef and pork) systematically responds to forces suggested by social-identity research: group status and group salience, with the latter proxied by inter-group conflict. Moreover, identity choices respond to the cost of following the group's prescribed behaviors. We propose and estimate a modified demand system to quantify the identity changes that followed India's 1991 economic reforms. While social-identity research has focused on status and salience, economic costs appear to play a dominant role.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25693
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Do Pollution Markets Harm Low Income and Minority Communities? Ranking Emissions Distributions Generated by California's RECLAIM Program</strong></p>
<p>Erin T. Mansur&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Glenn Sheriff&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We compare the spatial distribution of emissions from Southern California’s pollution-trading program with that of a counterfactual command-and-control policy. We develop a normatively significant metric with which to rank the various distributions in a manner consistent with an explicit well-behaved preference structure. Results suggest trading benefited all demographic groups and generated a more equitable overall distribution of emissions even after controlling for its lower aggregate emissions. Upper-income and white demographics had more desirable distributions relative to low-income and some minority groups under the RECLAIM trading program, however, and population shifts over time may have undermined anticipated gains for African Americans.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25666
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  