---
layout: post
title: "NBER April  8, 2019"
description: ""
category: 经济学
tags: [工作论文]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<p><strong>Hedging Climate Change News</strong></p>
<p>Robert F. Engle III&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Stefano Giglio&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Bryan T. Kelly&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Heebum Lee&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Johannes Stroebel&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We propose and implement a procedure to dynamically hedge climate change risk. To create our hedge target, we extract innovations from climate news series that we construct through textual analysis of high-dimensional data on newspaper coverage of climate change. We then use a mimicking portfolio approach based on a large panel of equity returns to build climate change hedge portfolios. We discipline the exercise by using third-party ESG scores of firms to model their climate risk exposures. We show that this approach yields parsimonious and industry-balanced portfolios that perform well in hedging innovations in climate news both in-sample and out-of-sample. The resulting hedge portfolios outperform alternative hedging strategies based primarily on industry tilts. We discuss multiple directions for future research on financial approaches to managing climate risk.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25734
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Workers' Employment Rates and Pension Reforms in France: the Role of Implicit Labor Taxation</strong></p>
<p>Didier Blanchet&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Antoine Bozio&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Simon Rabaté&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Muriel Roger&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Over the last fifteen years, France has experienced a reversal of older workers’ labor force participation and employment rates. Changes in health, life expectancy or education levels over the period are trend variables and thus cannot explain this “U-shaped” time profile. Pension reforms and associated changes in monetary incentives to retire are a more plausible explanation. Their impact is measured by the implicit tax rate on working longer, which combines induced changes in the level of benefits and the fact of foregoing one year of these benefits. We also account for changes in the relative importance of alternative pathways to normal retirement. Pension reforms and access to these alternative pathways have moved in ways that can account for a significant part of the “U-shaped” pattern of older workers labor force participation.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25733
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>"And Yet It Moves": Intergenerational Mobility in Italy</strong></p>
<p>Paolo Acciari&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Alberto Polo&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Giovanni L. Violante&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We link administrative data on tax returns across two generations of Italians to study the degree of intergenerational mobility. We estimate that a child with parental income below the median is expected to belong to the 44th percentile of its own income distribution as an adult, and the probability of moving from the bottom to the top quintile of the income distribution within a generation is 0.10. The rank-rank correlation  is 0.25, and rank persistence at the top is significantly higher than elsewhere in the income distribution. Upward mobility is higher for sons, first-born children, children of self-employed parents, and for those who migrate once adults. The data reveal large variation in child outcomes conditional on parental income rank. Part of this variation is explained by the location where the child grew up. Provinces in Northern Italy, the richest area of the country, display upward mobility levels 3-4 times as large as those in the South. This regional variation is strongly correlated with local labor market conditions, indicators of family instability, and school quality.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25732
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Can Simple Psychological Interventions Increase Preventive Health Investment?</strong></p>
<p>Johannes Haushofer&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Anett John&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kate Orkin&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Behavioral constraints may explain part of low demand for preventive health products. We test the effects of two light-touch psychological interventions on water chlorination and related health and economic outcomes using a randomized controlled trial among 3750 women in rural Kenya. One intervention encourages participants to visualize alternative realizations of the future; one builds participants' ability to make concrete plans to achieve goals. Both interventions include information on health benefits of chlorination. After twelve weeks, both interventions increase the share of households who chlorinate drinking water and reduce child diarrhea episodes. Analysis of mechanisms suggests both interventions increase self-efficacy – beliefs about one's ability to achieve desired outcomes –  as well as the salience of chlorination. They do not differentially affect beliefs and knowledge about chlorination (compared to a group who receive only information), nor affect lab measures of time preferences or planning ability. Results suggest simple psychological interventions can increase use of preventive health technologies.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25731
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Schools, Neighborhoods, and the Long-Run Effect of Crime-Prone Peers</strong></p>
<p>Stephen B. Billings&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Mark Hoekstra&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
This paper examines how elementary-aged peers affect cognitive and non-cognitive outcomes from adolescence to adulthood. We identify effects by exploiting within-school and within-neighborhood variation in the proportion of peers with an arrested parent. Results indicate exposure to these peers reduces achievement and increases antisocial behavior during middle and high school.  More importantly, we estimate that a five percentage point increase in school and neighborhood crime-prone peers increases arrest rates at age 19 - 21 by 6.5 and 2.6 percent, respectively.  Additional evidence suggests these effects are due to attending school with crime-prone peers, rather than living in the same neighborhood.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25730
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Throwing the Baby out with the Drinking Water: Unintended Consequences of Arsenic Mitigation Efforts in Bangladesh</strong></p>
<p>Nina Buchmann&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Erica M. Field&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Rachel Glennerster&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Reshmaan N. Hussam&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
The 1994 discovery of arsenic in groundwater in Bangladesh prompted a massive public health campaign that led 20% of the population to switch from backyard wells to less convenient drinking water sources that had a higher risk of fecal contamination. We find evidence of unintended health consequences by comparing mortality trends between households in the same village that did and did not have an incentive to abandon shallow tubewells. Post-campaign, households encouraged to switch water sources have 46% higher rates of child mortality than those not encouraged to switch. Switching away from arsenic-contaminated wells also increased adult mortality.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25729
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Impact of Global Warming on Rural-Urban Migrations: Evidence from Global Big Data</strong></p>
<p>Giovanni Peri&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Akira Sasahara&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
This paper examines the impact of temperature changes on rural-urban migration using a 56km×56km grid cell level dataset covering the whole world at 10-year frequency during the period 1970-2000. We find that rising temperatures reduce rural-urban migration in poor countries and increase such migration in middle-income countries. These asymmetric migration responses are consistent with a simple model where rural-urban earnings differentials and liquidity constraints interact to determine rural-to-urban migration flows. We also confirm these temperature effects using country-level observations constructed by aggregating the grid cell level data. We project that expected warming in the next century will encourage further urbanization in middle-income countries such as Argentina, but it will slow down urban transition in poor countries like Malawi and Niger.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25728
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>How the 1906 San Francisco Earthquake Shaped Economic Activity in the American West</strong></p>
<p>Philipp Ager&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Katherine Eriksson&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Casper Worm Hansen&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Lars Lønstrup&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
This paper examines the long-run effects of the 1906 San Francisco Earthquake on the spatial distribution of economic activity in the American West. Using variation in the potential damage intensity of the earthquake, we show that more severely affected cities experienced lower population increases relative to less affected cities until the late 20th century. This long lasting effect is largely a result of individuals’ high geographical mobility at that time. Less affected areas became more attractive migration destinations in the immediate aftermath of the earthquake, which permanently changed the spatial distribution of economic activity in the American West.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25727
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Fast, "Robust", and Approximately Correct:  Estimating Mixed Demand Systems</strong></p>
<p>Bernard Salanié&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Frank A. Wolak&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Many econometric models used in applied work integrate over unobserved heterogeneity. We show that a class of these models that includes many random coefficients demand systems can be approximated by a “small-σ” expansion that yields a linear two-stage least squares estimator. We study in detail the models of product market shares and prices popular in empirical IO. Our estimator is only approximately correct, but it performs very well in practice. It is extremely fast and easy to implement, and it is “robust” to changes in the higher moments of the distribution of the random coefficients. At the very least, it provides excellent starting values for more commonly used estimators of these models.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25726
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Taxing Top Incomes in a World of Ideas</strong></p>
<p>Charles I. Jones&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
This paper considers the taxation of top incomes when the following conditions apply: (i) new ideas drive economic growth, (ii) the reward for creating a successful innovation is a top income, and (iii) innovation cannot be perfectly targeted by a separate research subsidy --- think about the business methods of Walmart, the creation of Uber, or the "idea" of Amazon.com. These conditions lead to a new force affecting the optimal top tax rate: by slowing the creation of the new ideas that drive aggregate GDP, top income taxation reduces everyone's income, not just the income at the top. When the creation of ideas is the ultimate source of economic growth, this force sharply constrains both revenue-maximizing and welfare-maximizing top tax rates. For example, for extreme parameter values, maximizing the welfare of the middle class requires a negative top tax rate: the higher income that results from the subsidy to innovation more than makes up for the lost redistribution. More generally, the calibrated model suggests that incorporating ideas as a driver of economic growth cuts the optimal top marginal tax rate substantially relative to the basic Saez calculation.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25725
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Democracy Effect: a Weights-Based Identification Strategy</strong></p>
<p>Pedro Dal Bó&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Andrew Foster&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kenju Kamei&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Dal Bó, Foster and Putterman (2010) show experimentally that the effect of a policy may be greater when it is democratically selected than when it is exogenously imposed. In this paper we propose a new and simpler identification strategy to measure this democracy effect. We derive the distribution of the statistic of the democracy effect, and apply the new strategy to the data from Dal Bó, Foster and Putterman (2010) and data from a new real-effort experiment in which subjects’ payoffs do not depend on the effort of others. The new identification strategy is based on calculating the average behavior under democracy by weighting the behavior of each type of voter by its prevalence in the whole population (and not conditional on the vote outcome). We show that use of these weights eliminates selection effects under certain conditions. Application of this method to the data in Dal Bó, Foster and Putterman (2010) confirms the presence of the democracy effect in that experiment, but no such effect is found for the real-effort experiment.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25724
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Risk Preferences of Children and Adolescents in Relation to Gender, Cognitive Skills, Soft Skills, and Executive Functions</strong></p>
<p>James Andreoni&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Amalia Di Girolamo&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;John A. List&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Claire Mackevicius&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Anya Samek&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We conduct experiments eliciting risk preferences with over 1,400 children and adolescents aged 3-15 years old. We complement our data with an assessment of cognitive and executive function skills. First, we find that adolescent girls display significantly greater risk aversion than adolescent boys. This pattern is not observed among young children, suggesting that the gender gap in risk preferences emerges in early adolescence. Second, we find that at all ages in our study, cognitive skills (specifically math ability) are positively associated with risk taking. Executive functions among children, and soft skills among adolescents, are negatively associated with risk taking. Third, we find that greater risk-tolerance is associated with higher likelihood of disciplinary referrals, which provides evidence that our task is equipped to measure a relevant behavioral outcome. For academics, our research provides a deeper understanding of the developmental origins of risk preferences and highlights the important role of cognitive and executive function skills to better understand the association between risk preferences and cognitive abilities over the studied age range.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25723
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Heterogeneous (Mis-) Perceptions of Energy Costs:  Implications for Measurement and Policy Design</strong></p>
<p>Sébastien Houde&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Erica Myers&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Quantifying heterogeneity in consumers’ misperceptions of product costs is crucial for policy design. We illustrate this point in the energy context and the design of Pigouvian policies. We estimate non-parametric distributions of perceptions of energy costs in the U.S. appliance market using a revealed preference approach. We show that the average degree of misperception is misleading— while the largest share of consumers correctly perceives energy costs, a significant share undervalues them, and smaller shares either significantly overvalues or completely ignores them. We show that setting a tax based on mean misperception deviates substantially from the optimal tax that accounts for heterogeneous misperceptions. While correctly characterizing misperception is crucial for setting optimal Pigouvian taxes for externalities, it is less important for setting optimal standards. We find that standards can largely outperform taxes. Standards’ advantage is they reduce variance in energy operating costs relative to taxes, which internalizes distortionary effects from misperceptions.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25722
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Global Capital Flows Cycle: Impact on Gross and Net Flows</strong></p>
<p>J. Scott Davis&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Giorgio Valente&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Eric van Wincoop&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
While prior to the global financial crisis the empirical international capital flow literature has focused on net capital flows (the current account), since the crisis there has been an increased focus on gross flows. In this paper we jointly analyze global drivers of gross flows (outflows plus inflows) and net flows (outflows minus inflows) by estimating a latent factor model. We find evidence of two global factors, which we call the GFC (global financial cycle) factor and commodity price factor as they closely track respectively the Miranda-Agrippino and Rey asset price factor and an average of oil and gas prices. These factors together account for half the variance of gross flows in advanced countries and forty percent of the variance of gross flows in emerging markets. But remarkably, they also account for forty percent of the variance of net capital flows in both groups of countries. We also analyze the heterogeneity across countries in the impact of the two factors. One of the key findings is that the impact of the GFC factor on both gross and net capital flows is stronger in countries that have larger net debt liabilities. Other asset classes (FDI and portfolio equity) do not significantly impact the exposure to the GFC factor.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25721
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>How Common are Electoral Cycles in Criminal Sentencing?</strong></p>
<p>Christian Dippel&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Michael Poyker&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Existing empirical evidence suggests a pervasive pattern of electoral cycles in criminal sentencing in the U.S.: judges appear to pass more punitive sentences when they are up for re-election, consistent with models of signaling where voters have more punitive preferences than judges. However, this pervasive evidence comes from only three states. Combining the existing evidence with data we collected from eight additional states, we are able to reproduce previous results, but find electoral cycles in only one of the eight additional states. Sentencing cycles appear to be the exception rather than the norm. We find that their existence hinges on the level of competition in judicial elections, which varies considerably across states.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25716
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Do Private Prisons Affect Criminal Sentencing?</strong></p>
<p>Christian Dippel&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Michael Poyker&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
This paper provides causal evidence of the effect of private prisons on court sentencing, using novel data on private prisons and state trial courts. Our identification strategy uses state-level changes in private-prison capacity and compares changes in sentencing only across court pairs that straddle state borders. We find that the opening of a private prison increases the length of sentences relative to what the crime’s and defendant’s characteristics predict. Effects are concentrated at the margin of sentence length, not of being sent to prison. The effect does not appear to be driven by ‘judicial capture’; instead the evidence is most consistent with the cost savings from private prisons leading judges to pass longer sentences. Private prisons do not appear to accentuate existing racial biases in sentencing decisions.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25715
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  