---
layout: post
title: "NBER March  4, 2019"
description: ""
category: 经济学
tags: [工作论文]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<p><strong>Job-Finding and Job-Losing: A Comprehensive Model of Heterogeneous Individual Labor-Market Dynamics</strong></p>
<p>Robert E. Hall&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Marianna Kudlyak&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We track the path that a worker follows after losing a job. Initially, the typical job-loser spends some time out of the labor force and in job search. Only a month or two later, in normal times, the worker lands a job. But the job is frequently brief. Over the next few months, the worker finds a good match that becomes a long-term job. Short-term jobs tend to precede long-term ones. Short-term employment shares some of the characteristics of unemployment and some of the characteristics of employment. We show that this pattern of moving among working, searching for a job, and being out of the labor force is concentrated in a segment of the working-age population. In other segments, individuals are insulated from disturbances to their activities in the labor market. Some work continuously while others are always out of the labor market. We develop a model that incorporates heterogeneity across and within these segments. 
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25625
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Real Option Exercise: Empirical Evidence</strong></p>
<p>Paul Décaire&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Erik P. Gilje&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jérôme P. Taillard&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We study when and why firms exercise real options. Using detailed project-level investment data, we find that the likelihood that a firm exercises a real option is strongly related to peer exercise behavior. Peer exercise decisions are as important in explaining exercise behavior as variables commonly associated with standard real option theories, such as volatility. We identify peer effects using localized exogenous variation in peer project exercise decisions and find evidence consistent with information externalities being important for exercise behavior.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25624
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Pecuniary and Non-Pecuniary Motivations for Tax Compliance: Evidence from Pakistan</strong></p>
<p>Joel Slemrod&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Obeid Ur Rehman&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Mazhar Waseem&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We examine two Pakistani programs to explore the role of deterrence as well as social and psychological factors in the tax compliance behavior of agents. In the first of these programs, the government began revealing income tax paid by every taxpayer in the country. The second program publicly recognizes and rewards the top 100 tax paying corporations, partnerships, self-employed individuals, and wage-earners. We find that both public disclosure and social recognition of top taxpayers caused a substantial increase in tax payments. We explore the drivers of this behavior, including the shift of social norms toward compliance.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25623
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Effects of Income Transparency on Well-Being: Evidence from a Natural Experiment</strong></p>
<p>Ricardo Perez-Truglia&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
In 2001, Norwegian tax records became easily accessible online, allowing everyone in the country to observe the incomes of everyone else. According to the income comparisons model, this change in transparency can widen the gap in well-being between the rich and the poor. We test this hypothesis using survey data from 1985–2013. Using multiple identification strategies, we show that the higher transparency increased the gap in happiness between richer and poorer individuals by 29%, and it increased the life satisfaction gap by 21%. We provide suggestive evidence that some, although probably not all, of this effect was related to changes in self-perceptions of relative income. We provide back-of-the-envelope estimates of the importance of income comparisons, and discuss implications for the ongoing debate on transparency policies.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25622
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Public Debt and Low Interest Rates</strong></p>
<p>Olivier J. Blanchard&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
This lecture focuses on the costs of public debt when safe interest rates are low.  I develop four arguments.</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25621
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Impact of Management Practices on Employee Productivity: A Field Experiment with Airline Captains</strong></p>
<p>Greer K. Gosnell&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;John A. List&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Robert D. Metcalfe&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Increasing evidence indicates the importance of management in determining firms’ productivity. Yet, causal evidence regarding the effectiveness of management practices is scarce, especially for high-skilled workers in the developed world. In an eight-month field experiment measuring the productivity of captains in the commercial aviation sector, we test four distinct management practices: (i) performance monitoring; (ii) performance feedback; (iii) target setting; and (iv) pro-social incentives. We find that these management practices—particularly performance monitoring and target setting—significantly increase captains’ productivity with respect to the targeted fuel-saving dimensions. We identify positive spillovers of the tested management practices on job satisfaction and carbon dioxide emissions, and captains overwhelmingly express desire for deeper managerial engagement. Both the implementation and the results of the study reveal an uncharted opportunity for management researchers to delve into the black box of firms and rigorously examine the determinants of productivity amongst skilled labor.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25620
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Artificial Intelligence: The Ambiguous Labor Market Impact of Automating Prediction</strong></p>
<p>Ajay Agrawal&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Joshua S. Gans&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Avi Goldfarb&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Recent advances in artificial intelligence are primarily driven by machine learning, a prediction technology. Prediction is useful because it is an input into decision-making. In order to appreciate the impact of artificial intelligence on jobs, it is important to understand the relative roles of prediction and decision tasks. We describe and provide examples of how artificial intelligence will affect labor, emphasizing differences between when automating prediction leads to automating decisions versus enhancing decision-making by humans.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25619
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Roots of Health Inequality and The Value of Intra-Family Expertise</strong></p>
<p>Yiqun Chen&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Petra Persson&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Maria Polyakova&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Mounting evidence documents a stark correlation between income and health, yet the causal mechanisms behind this gradient are poorly understood. This paper examines the impact of access to expertise on health, and whether unequal access to expertise contributes to the health-income gradient. Our empirical setting, Sweden, allows us to shut down inequality in formal access to health care; we first document that strong socioeconomic gradients nonetheless persist. Second, we study the effect of access to health-related expertise – captured by the presence of a health professional in the extended family – on health. Exploiting “admissions lotteries” into medical schools and variation in the timing of degrees, we show that access to intra-family medical expertise has far-reaching health consequences, at all ages: It raises longevity, improves drug adherence and reduces the occurrence of lifestyle-related disease in adulthood, raises vaccination rates in adolescence, and reduces tobacco exposure in utero. Third, we show that the effects of expertise are larger at the lower end of the income distribution – precisely where access to expertise is scarcer. Unequal access to health-related expertise can account for as much as 18% of the health-SES gradient, and may thus play a significant role in sustaining health inequality.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25618
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Optimal Progressivity with Age-Dependent Taxation</strong></p>
<p>Jonathan Heathcote&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kjetil Storesletten&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Giovanni L. Violante&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
This paper studies optimal taxation of earnings when the degree of tax progressivity is allowed to vary with age. The setting is an overlapping-generations model that incorporates irreversible skill investment, flexible labor supply, ex-ante heterogeneity in the disutility of work and the cost of skill acquisition, partially insurable wage risk, and a life cycle productivity profile. An analytically tractable version of the model without intertemporal trade is used to characterize and quantify the salient trade-offs in tax design. The key results are that progressivity should be U-shaped in age and that the average marginal tax rate should be increasing and concave in age. These findings are confirmed in a version of the model with borrowing and saving that we solve numerically.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25617
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Optimal Managed Competition Subsidies</strong></p>
<p>Keaton S. Miller&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Amil Petrin&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Robert Town&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Michael Chernew&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
When markets fail to provide socially optimal outcomes, governments often intervene through ‘managed competition’ where firms compete for per-consumer subsidies. Subsidies are generally set across geographies according to estimates of the cost of government provision, a method which may not be welfare-maximizing. We introduce a framework for determining the optimal subsidy schedule that features heterogeneity in consumer preferences and inertia, and firms with heterogeneous costs that can set prices and product characteristics in response to changes in the subsidy. We apply it to the Medicare Advantage program, which offers Medicare recipients private insurance that replaces Traditional Medicare. We calculate counterfactual equilibria as a function of the subsidies by estimating policy functions for product characteristics from the data and solving for Nash equilibria in prices. The optimal schedule increases consumer surplus by 30% over the current policy and is well-approximated with a linear rule using market-level observables.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25616
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Can Incentives to Increase Electricity Use Reduce the Cost of Integrating Renewable Resources</strong></p>
<p>Laura M. Anderson&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Lars Gårn Hansen&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Carsten Lynge Jensen&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Frank A. Wolak&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We report results from a large field experiment that with a few hours prior notice provided Danish residential consumers with dynamic price and environmental signals aimed at causing them to shift their consumption either into or away from certain hours of the day. The same marginal price signal is found to cause substantially larger consumption shifts into target hours compared to consumption shifts away from target hours. Consumption is also reduced in the hours of the day before and after these into target hours and there is weaker evidence of increased consumption in the hours surrounding away target hours. The same into versus away results hold for the environmental signals, although the absolute size of the eects are smaller. Using detailed household-level demographic information for all customers invited to participate in the experiment, both models are re-estimated accounting for this decision. For both the price and environmental treatments, the same qualitative results are obtained, but with uniformly smaller quantitative magnitudes. These selection-corrected estimates are used to perform a counterfactual experiment where all of the retailer’s residential customers are assumed to face these  dynamic price signals. We find substantial wholesale energy cost savings for the retailer from  declaring into events designed to shift consumption from high demand periods to low demand perio ds within the day, which suggests that such a pricing strategy could significantly reduce the cost  of increasing the share of greenhouse gas free wind and solar electricity production in an electricity supply industry.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25615
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Misfits in the Car Industry: Offshore Assembly Decisions at the Variety Level</strong></p>
<p>Keith Head&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Thierry Mayer&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
This paper estimates the role of country-variety comparative advantage in the decision to offshore assembly of more than 2000 models of 197 car brands headquartered in 23 countries. While offshoring in the car industry has risen from 2000 to 2016, the top five offshoring brands account for half  the car assembly relocated to low-wage countries.  We show that the decision to offshore a particular car model depends on two types of cost (dis)advantage of the home country  relative to foreign locations. The first type,  the  assembly costs common to all models, is estimated via  a structural  triadic gravity equation. The second effect, model-level comparative advantage, is an interaction between proxies for the model's skill and capital intensity and   headquarter country's abundance in these factors.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25614
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Trade Diversion and Trade Deficits: The case of the Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement</strong></p>
<p>Katheryn N. Russ&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Deborah L. Swenson&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We study whether tariff preferences conferred on South Korean goods through the implementation of the Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement (KORUS) drew U.S. import demand away from other U.S. trading partners through the phenomenon known as trade diversion. In the two years following the implementation of KORUS, trade diversion was particularly strong for U.S. imports of consumption goods and for trade partners who already had free trade agreements with the U.S. Our estimates of trade diversion sum to $13.1 billion in 2013 and $13.8 billion in 2014. Notably, these estimates of trade diversion are roughly of the same magnitude as the increase in the U.S. bilateral goods trade deficit with South Korea. Thus, while increased U.S. imports from South Korea may have increased the U.S.-South Korea bilateral trade deficit, the fact that KORUS diverted U.S. import demand away from other trading partners implies new U.S. imports from Korea stimulated by the KORUS did not expand the overall U.S. trade deficit.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25613
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Wage Equalization and Regional Misallocation: Evidence from Italian and German Provinces</strong></p>
<p>Tito Boeri&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Andrea Ichino&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Enrico Moretti&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Johanna Posch&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
In many European countries, wages are determined by collective bargaining agreements intended to improve wages and reduce inequality. We study the local and aggregate effects of collective bargaining in Italy and Germany. The two countries have similar geographical differences in firm productivity—with the North more productive than the South in Italy and the West more productive than the East in Germany—-but have adopted different models of wage bargaining. Italy sets wages based on nationwide contracts that allow for limited local wage adjustments, while Germany has moved toward a more flexible system that allows for local bargaining. We find that, as a consequence, Italy exhibits limited geographical wage differences in nominal terms and almost no relationship between local productivity and local nominal wages, while Germany has larger geographic wage differences and a tighter link between local wages and local productivity. While the Italian system is successful at reducing nominal wage inequality, it also creates costly geographic imbalances. In Italy, low productivity provinces have significantly higher non-employment rates than high productivity provinces, because employers cannot lower wages, while in Germany the relationship between non-employment and productivity is significantly weaker. In Italy, the relationship between real wages and productivity is negative, with lower real wages in the North compared to the South, since the latter has low housing costs but similar nominal wages. Thus, conditional on having a job, Italian workers have higher purchasing power in the South, but the probability of having a job is higher in the North. We conclude that the Italian system has significant costs in terms of forgone aggregate earnings and employment because it generates a spatial equilibrium where workers queue for jobs in the South and remain unemployed while waiting. If Italy adopted the German system, aggregate employment and earnings would increase by 11.04% and 7.45%, respectively. Our findings are relevant for several other European countries with systems similar to Italy’s.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25612
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Quality, Variable Markups, and Welfare:  A Quantitative General Equilibrium Analysis of Export Prices</strong></p>
<p>Haichao Fan&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Yao Amber Li&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sichuang Xu&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Stephen R. Yeaple&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Modern trade models attribute the dispersion of international prices to physical and man-made barriers to trade, to the pricing-to-market by heterogeneous producers and to differences in the quality of output offered by firms. This paper presents a general equilibrium model that incorporates all three of these mechanisms. Our model allows us to confront Chinese firm-level data on the prices charged and revenues earned across markets. We show that all three mechanisms are necessary to fit the distribution of prices and revenues across firms and markets. Accounting for endogenous quality heterogeneity across markets and firms is shown to be critical for the welfare implications of trade and for the response of prices to trade and tariff shocks
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25611
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Assessing the Gains from E-Commerce</strong></p>
<p>Paul Dolfen&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Liran Einav&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Peter J. Klenow&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Benjamin Klopack&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jonathan D. Levin&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Laurence Levin&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Wayne Best&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
E-Commerce represents a rapidly growing share of consumer spending in the U.S. We use transactions-level data on credit and debit cards from Visa, Inc. between 2007 and 2017 to quantify the resulting consumer surplus. We estimate that E-Commerce spending reached 8% of consumption by 2017, yielding consumers the equivalent of a 1% permanent boost to their consumption, or over $1,000 per household. While some of the gains arose from saving travel costs of buying from local merchants, most of the gains stemmed from substituting to online merchants. Higher income cardholders gained more, as did consumers in more densely populated counties.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25610
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Entry Costs and the Macroeconomy</strong></p>
<p>Germán Gutiérrez&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Callum Jones&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Thomas Philippon&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We propose a model to identify the causes of rising profits and concentration, and declining entry and investment in the US economy. Our approach combines a rich structural DSGE model with cross-sectional identification from firm and industry data. Using asset prices, our model estimates the realized and anticipated shocks that drive the endogeneity of entry and concentration and recovers shocks to entry costs. We validate our approach by showing that the model-implied entry shocks correlate with independently constructed measures of entry regulation and M&A activities. We conclude that entry costs have risen and that the ensuing decline in competition has depressed consumption by five to ten percent.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25609
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Right to Education Act: Trends in Enrollment, Test Scores, and School Quality</strong></p>
<p>Manisha Shah&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Bryce Millett Steinberg&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
The Right to Education Act in 2009 guaranteed access to free primary education for all children in India ages 6-14. This paper investigates whether national trends in educational data changed around the time of this law using household surveys and administrative data. We document four trends: (1) School-going increases after the passage of RTE, (2) Test scores decline dramatically after 2010, (3) School infrastructure appears to be improving both before and after RTE, and (4) The number of students who have to repeat a grade falls precipitously after RTE is enacted, in line with the official provisions of the law.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25608
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>An Empirical Framework for Sequential Assignment: The Allocation of Deceased Donor Kidneys</strong></p>
<p>Nikhil Agarwal&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Itai Ashlagi&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Michael A. Rees&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Paulo J. Somaini&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Daniel C. Waldinger&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
An organ transplant can improve a patient’s life while also realizing substantial savings in healthcare expenditures. Like many other scarce public resources, organs from deceased donors are rationed to patients on a waitlist via a sequential offer mechanism. The theoretical trade-offs in designing these rationing systems are not well understood and depend on agent preferences. This paper establishes an empirical framework for analyzing waitlist systems and applies it to study the allocation of deceased donor kidneys. We model the decision to accept an organ or wait for a more preferable organ as an optimal stopping problem, and develop techniques to compute equilibria of counterfactual mechanisms. Our estimates show that while some types of kidneys are desirable for all patients, there is substantial match-specific heterogeneity in values. We then evaluate alternative mechanisms by comparing their effect on patient welfare to an equivalent change in donor supply. Past reforms to the kidney waitlist primarily resulted in redistribution, with similar welfare and organ discard rates as the benchmark first come first served mechanism. These mechanisms and other commonly studied theoretical benchmarks remain far from optimal: we design a mechanism that increases patient welfare by the equivalent of a 14.2 percent increase in donor supply.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25607
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Might Global Uncertainty Promote International Trade?</strong></p>
<p>Isaac Baley&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Laura Veldkamp&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Michael E. Waugh&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Common wisdom dictates that uncertainty impedes trade—we show that uncertainty can fuel more trade in a simple general equilibrium trade model with information frictions. In equilibrium, increases in uncertainty increase both the mean and the variance in returns to exporting implying that trade can increase or decrease with uncertainty depending on preferences. Under general conditions on preferences, we characterize the importance of these forces using a sufficient statistics approach. Higher uncertainty leads to increases in trade because agents receive improved terms of trade, particularly in states of nature where consumption is most valuable. Trade creates value, in part, by offering a mechanism to share risk and risk sharing is most effective when both parties are uninformed.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25606
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Socialized Healthcare and Women's Fertility Decisions</strong></p>
<p>Resul Cesur&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Pinar Mine Gunes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Erdal Tekin&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aydogan Ulker&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
This paper examines the effect of a nationwide healthcare reform implemented in Turkey on women’s fertility decisions. The Family Medicine Program (FMP), introduced in 2005, provided a wide-range of primary healthcare services, free of charge, and achieved universal access by matching each citizen to a specific family physician, who operates at neighborhood clinics, called Family Health Centers, on a walk-in basis. Although reducing fertility was not specified among the goals of the reform, reproductive-health and family-planning services have been covered under the FMP. To establish causality, we exploit the staggered rollout of the FMP implementation across Turkish provinces over time using a difference-in-differences estimation strategy. Our estimates indicate that the FMP significantly reduced childbearing among both teenagers and women ages 20-29. These results can be explained by increased access to and reduced cost of reproductive-health and family-planning services. However, the patterns in which the program effect has evolved over time differs between the two groups of women in a way that provides additional insights about the mechanisms. For teenagers, the FMP had a direct effect on childbearing, reflected by an immediate and rapidly-increasing pattern, which is not surprising given the broad agreement about the negative consequences of teenage childbearing among government and public health officials, including those in Turkey. For women ages 20-29, however, the program had a gradual and slowly-increasing effect, which is consistent with an empowerment channel. This should be interpreted as an unintended consequence of the program because, if anything, Turkey is a country where the government’s position is to encourage fertility behavior and discourage birth control practices among women at prime childbearing ages.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25605
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Fintech and Household Resilience to Shocks: Evidence from Digital Loans in Kenya</strong></p>
<p>Prashant Bharadwaj&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;William Jack&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Tavneet Suri&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Developing country lenders are taking advantage of fintech tools to create fully digital loans on mobile phones. Using administrative and survey data, we study the take up and impacts of one of the most popular digital loan products in the world, M-Shwari in Kenya. While 34% of those eligible for a loan take it, the loan does not substitute for other credit. The loans improve household resilience: households are 6.3 percentage points less likely to forego expenses due to negative shocks. We conclude that while digital loans improve financial access and resilience, they are not a panacea for greater credit market failures.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25604
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>"Superstitious" Investors</strong></p>
<p>Hongye Guo&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jessica A. Wachter&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We consider an economy in which investors believe dividend growth is predictable, when in reality it is not.  We show that these beliefs lead to excess volatility and return predictability.  We also show that these beliefs are rational in the face of evidence on dividend growth.  We apply this framework to explaining the value premium, predictability of bond returns, and the violation of uncovered interest rate parity.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25603
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Economic Value of Breaking Bad: Misbehavior, Schooling and the Labor Market</strong></p>
<p>Nicholas W. Papageorge&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Victor Ronda&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Yu Zheng&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Prevailing research argues that childhood misbehavior in the classroom is bad for schooling and, presumably, bad for labor market outcomes. In contrast, we argue that some childhood misbehavior represents underlying socio-emotional skills that are valuable in the labor market. We follow work from psychology and categorize observed classroom misbehavior into two underlying latent factors. We then estimate a model of educational attainment and earnings outcomes, allowing the impact of each of the two factors to vary by outcome. We find that one of the factors, labeled in the psychological literature as externalizing behavior (and linked, for example, to aggression), reduces educational attainment yet increases earnings. Unlike most models where socio-emotional skills that increase human capital through education also increase labor market skills, our findings illustrate how some socio-emotional skills can be productive in some economic contexts and counter-productive in others. Policies designed to promote human capital accumulation could therefore have mixed effects or even negative economic consequences, especially in the case of policies that target socio-emotional skill formation for children or adolescents which are aimed solely at improving educational outcomes.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25602
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Political Parties Do Matter in U.S. Cities ... For Their Unfunded Pensions</strong></p>
<p>Christian Dippel&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Using data covering a wide range of municipal public-sector pension plans from 1962– 2014, I establish that unfunded pension benefits grow faster under Democratic-party mayors. The result is borne out in a generalized difference-in-differences (DiD) specification in levels and in growth rates as well as in a regression discontinuity design (RDD) focusing on narrow mayoral races. There is some evidence that the partisan effect is concentrated in police and fire-fighter plans. Being on a council-manager system matters very little to these patterns. While Tiebout sorting has been the proposed explanation for previous findings that parties do not matter for a range of fiscal outcomes in U.S. cities, Tiebout sorting may actually accentuate fiscal profligacy in the case of unfunded pensions. 
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25601
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>School Finance Equalization Increases Intergenerational Mobility: Evidence from a Simulated-Instruments Approach</strong></p>
<p>Barbara Biasi&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
This paper estimates the causal effect of equalizing revenues across public school districts on students' intergenerational mobility, using variation from 13 school finance reforms passed in 20 US states between 1986 and 2004. Since households sort in response to each reform, post-reform revenues are endogenous to an extent that varies across states depending on the funding formula. I address this issue with a simulated-instruments approach, which uses newly collected data on states' funding formulas to simulate revenues in the absence of sorting. I find that equalization has a large effect on mobility, especially for low-income students. I provide suggestive evidence that this effect acts through a reduction in the gap in inputs (such as the number of teachers) and in college attendance between low-income and high-income districts.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25600
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Household Innovation, R&D, and New Measures of Intangible Capital</strong></p>
<p>Daniel Sichel&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Eric von Hippel&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Household R&D (or household innovation) is an important source of innovation that has to date been largely overlooked in research related to national accounts. Indeed, it is not currently counted as investment in the literatures on household production and human capital. This paper develops time series estimates of nominal investment, real investment, and real capital stocks for household R&D for product innovations in the United States. (We focus on product innovations because survey data on services innovations in the household sector are not yet available.) In the U.S., we find that household product R&D is significant. Our estimate of real investment in 2017 is $41 billion (2012 dollars). This is about half of what producers spend in R&D to develop new products for consumers – a sizable fraction. Our estimate of the real capital stock of household product R&D in 2017 is $233 billion. We conclude that household R&D is an important feature of household activity and, more generally, of the overall landscape of innovation.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25599
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Universal Basic Income in the Developing World</strong></p>
<p>Abhijit Banerjee&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Paul Niehaus&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Tavneet Suri&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Should developing countries give everyone enough money to live on? Interest in this idea has grown enormously in recent years, reflecting both positive results from a number of existing cash transfer programs and also dissatisfaction with the perceived limitations of piecemeal, targeted approaches to reducing extreme poverty. We discuss what we know (and what we do not) about three questions: what recipients would likely do with the incremental income, whether this would unlock further economic growth, and the potential consequences of giving the money to everyone (as opposed to targeting it).
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25598
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  