---
layout: post
title: "The End Of Economics? vs Has Economics Failed Us? Hardly)"
description: ""
category: 经济学
tags: [杂文]
---
{% include JB/setup %}
<a href="https://fareedzakaria.com/columns/2019/1/22/the-end-of-economics"><strong>The End Of Economics?</strong> </a>
<p>  /Fazeed Zakaria</p>


<p>In 1998, as the Asian financial crisis was ravaging what had been some of the fastest-growing economies in the world, the&nbsp;<em>New Yorker&nbsp;</em>ran an article describing the international rescue efforts. It profiled the super-diplomat of the day, a big-idea man the&nbsp;<em>Economist&nbsp;</em>had recently likened to Henry Kissinger. The&nbsp;<em>New Yorker&nbsp;</em>went further, noting that when he arrived in Japan in June, this American official was treated “as if he were General [Douglas] MacArthur.” In retrospect, such reverence seems surprising, given that the man in question, Larry Summers, was a disheveled, somewhat awkward nerd then serving as the U.S. deputy treasury secretary. His extraordinary status owed, in part, to the fact that the United States was then (and still is) the world’s sole superpower and the fact that Summers was (and still is) extremely intelligent. But the biggest reason for Summers’s welcome was the widespread perception that he possessed a special knowledge that would save Asia from collapse. Summers was an economist.</p><p>During the Cold War, the tensions that defined the world were ideological and geopolitical. As a result, the superstar experts of that era were those with special expertise in those areas. And policymakers who could combine an understanding of both, such as Kissinger, George Kennan, and Zbigniew Brzezinski, ascended to the top of the heap, winning the admiration of both politicians and the public. Once the Cold War ended, however, geopolitical and ideological issues faded in significance, overshadowed by the rapidly expanding global market as formerly socialist countries joined the Western free trade system. All of a sudden, the most valuable intellectual training and practical experience became economics, which was seen as the secret sauce that could make and unmake nations. In 1999, after the Asian crisis abated,&nbsp;<em>Time&nbsp;</em>magazine ran a cover story with a photograph of Summers, U.S. Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin, and U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and the headline “The Committee to Save the World.”</p><p>In the three decades since the end of the Cold War, economics has enjoyed a kind of intellectual hegemony.&nbsp;It has become first among equals in the social sciences and has dominated most&nbsp;policy agendas as well. Economists have been much sought after by businesses, governments, and society at large, their insights seen as useful in every sphere of life. Popularized economics and economic-type thinking have produced an entire genre of best-selling books. At the root of all this influence is the notion that economics provides the most powerful lens through which to understand the modern world.</p><p>That hegemony is now over. Things started to change during the 2008 global financial crisis, which had a far greater impact on the discipline of economics than is commonly understood. As Paul Krugman noted in a September 2009 essay in the&nbsp;<em>New York Times Magazine</em>, “Few economists saw our current crisis coming, but this predictive failure was the least of the field’s problems. More important was the profession’s blindness to the very possibility of catastrophic failures in a market economy.” The left-wing Krugman was not the only one to make this observation. In October 2008, Greenspan, a lifelong libertarian, admitted that “the whole intellectual edifice … collapsed in the summer of last year.”</p><p>For Krugman, the reason was clear: Economists had mistaken “beauty, clad in impressive-looking mathematics, for truth.” In other words, they’d fallen in love with the supposed rigor that derives from the assumption that markets function perfectly. But the world had turned out to be more complex and unpredictable than the equations.</p><p>The crisis of 2008 may have been the wake-up call, but it was only the latest warning sign. Modern-day economics had been built on certain assumptions: that countries, companies, and people seek to maximize their income above all else, that human beings are rational actors, and that the system works efficiently. But over the last few decades, compelling new work by scholars such as Daniel Kahneman, Richard Thaler, and Robert Shiller has begun to show that human beings are not predictably rational; in fact, they’re predictably irrational. This “behavioral revolution” landed a debilitating blow to mainstream economics by arguing that what was perhaps the centerpiece assumption of modern economic theory was not only wrong but, even worse, unhelpful.</p><p>In the social sciences, it is generally understood that theoretical assumptions never mirror reality—they’re abstractions designed to simplify—but do provide a powerful way to understand and predict. What the behavioral economists showed is that the assumption of rationality actually produces misunderstandings and bad predictions. It is worth noting that one of the very few economists who predicted both the dot-com bubble that caused the crash of 2000 and the housing bubble that caused the crash of 2008 was Shiller, who won the Nobel Prize in 2013 for his work in behavioral economics.</p><p>Recent events have hammered still more nails into the coffin of traditional economics. If the great divide of 20th-century politics was over free markets, the key splits that have emerged in the past few years involve immigration, race, religion, gender, and a whole set of related cultural and identity issues. Where in the past one could predict a voter’s choice based on his or her economic standing, today voters are driven more by concerns about social status or cultural coherence than by economic self-interest.</p><p>If economics has failed to accurately capture the motives of the modern individual, what about modern countries? These days, the quest to maximize profit does not seem like a helpful way to understand why states act the way they do. Many European countries, for example, have higher labor&nbsp;productivity than the United States. Yet citizens there choose to work fewer hours and take longer vacations, decreasing their output—because, they might argue, they prioritize contentment or happiness over economic output. Bhutan has explicitly decided to pursue “gross national happiness” rather than gross domestic product. Many countries have replaced purely GDP-oriented goals with strategies that also stress environmental sustainability. China still puts economic growth at the center of its planning, but even it has other, equal priorities, such as preserving the Communist Party’s monopoly on power—and it uses non-free market mechanisms to do so. Meanwhile, populists everywhere now place greater value on preserving jobs than on increasing efficiency.</p><p>Let me be clear: Economics remains a vital discipline, one of the most powerful ways we have to understand the world.&nbsp;But in the heady days of post-Cold War globalization, when the world seemed to be dominated by markets and trade and wealth creation, it became the dominant discipline, the key to understanding modern life. That economics has since slipped from that pedestal is simply a testament to the fact that the world is messy. The social sciences differ from the hard sciences because “the subjects of our study think,” said Herbert Simon, one of the few scholars who excelled in both. As we try to understand the world of the next three decades, we will desperately need economics but also political science, sociology, psychology, and perhaps even literature and philosophy. Students of each should retain some element of humility. As Immanuel Kant said, “Out of the crooked timber of humanity, no straight thing was ever made.”</p><p>(c) Foreign Policy, 2019</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>

<a href="http://larrysummers.com/2019/01/24/36810/"><strong>Has economics failed us? Hardly</strong> </a>
<p>  /Lawrence Summers</p>

<p>My friend Fareed Zakaria has celebrated his well-deserved recognition by Foreign Policy Magazine as one of the 10 most important foreign policy thinkers of the last decade by writing an <a href="https://foreignpolicy.com/gt-essay/the-end-of-economics-fareed-zakaria/">essay</a> entitled “The End of Economics,” doubting the relevance and utility of economics and economists.&nbsp; Because Fareed is so thoughtful, and echoes arguments that are frequently made, he deserves a considered response.<span id="more-36810"></span></p>
<p>Fareed ignores large bodies of economic thought, fails to recognize that economists have been the sources of most critiques of previous economic thinking, tilts at straw men, and offers little alternative to economic approaches to public policy.</p>
<p>Many critics of economics hold out the failure of the economics profession to predict the financial crisis as an indictment.&nbsp; This argument fails to acknowledge a central idea taught in every basic finance course. Market breaks are inherently unpredictable because one that was predicted would have already occurred as everyone moved to sell.&nbsp; Even so, several economists including <a href="https://www.frbsf.org/our-district/press/presidents-speeches/yellen-speeches/2007/september/recent-financial-developments-and-the-u-s-economic-outlook-san-francisco/">Janet Yellen</a>, <a href="https://www.imf.org/en/News/Articles/2015/09/28/04/53/sp082705">Raghuram Rajan</a>, <a href="https://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=4679264">Robert Shiller</a>and I (<a href="https://www.ft.com/content/f4056796-950e-11db-a911-0000779e2340#axzz2aRRWWnZN">2006</a>,&nbsp;<a href="https://www.ft.com/content/fda4255c-daf1-11db-ba4d-000b5df10621#axzz2aRRWWnZN">2007</a>, <a href="https://www.ft.com/content/b56079a8-9b71-11dc-8aad-0000779fd2ac#axzz2aRRWWnZN">2007</a>, <a href="https://delong.typepad.com/larry-summers-stanford-march-7-2008.pdf">2008</a>) were concerned about risks to the financial system and the real economy in the years and months preceding the crisis.</p>
<p>Fareed quotes Paul Krugman on the economics profession’s “blindness to the very possibility of catastrophic failures in a market economy”. Yet he quotes Krugman selectively. Krugman is indeed critical of economics, but has also argued for many years that <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/16/opinion/what-do-we-actually-know-about-the-economy-wonkish.html">textbook macroeconomic theory</a> could <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/17/opinion/paul-krugman-that-old-time-economics.html">explain</a> much of the financial crisis and its aftermath, and that the main policy failures post crisis (insufficient stimulus and foolish worries about inflation and deficits) reflected ignorance of economics and adherence to shibboleths. I have long shared Paul’s views on the <a href="http://faculty.econ.ucdavis.edu/faculty/kdsalyer/LECTURES/Ecn200e/summers_illusion.pdf"> excessive fetishization of mathematical elegance</a> in macroeconomics, but this is very different from discarding textbook macro which has stood up very well.</p>
<p>Fareed, echoing other critics, attacks the economics profession for the use of GDP in assessing national economic performance. This is a justified concern. Yet all the serious efforts to move beyond GDP have their roots in research by card-carrying economists.&nbsp;Think of Jim Tobin and Bill Nordhaus with their <a href="https://www.nber.org/chapters/c7620.pdf">Measure of Economic Welfare</a> written 50 years ago, Partha Dasgupta on <a href="http://www.oxfordscholarship.com/view/10.1093/0199247889.001.0001/acprof-9780199247882">sustainability</a>, Amartya Sen on <a href="https://scholar.harvard.edu/sen/publications/capability-and-well-being-0">comprehensive measures of Human Development</a> or <a href="http://www.hup.harvard.edu/catalog.php?isbn=9780674504769">Tony Atkinson</a> and <a href="http://www.hup.harvard.edu/catalog.php?isbn=9780674430006&amp;content=reviews">Thomas Piketty</a> on inequality.</p>
<p>It is argued that the common economic assumption that everyone is rational and optimizing is hardly valid.&nbsp; Of course.&nbsp;This has been a major theme in economic research since before I was born, with Milton Friedman having written a famous <a href="http://home.uchicago.edu/~vlima/courses/econ200/spring01/friedman.pdf"> paper</a> talking about why people buy lottery tickets. Andrei Shleifer and I wrote a <a href="https://www.aeaweb.org/articles?id=10.1257/jep.4.2.19">survey</a> of the then large literature on “noise traders” more than a quarter century ago, and the argument that speculative prices are not fully rational and reflect greed, fear and human emotion is amply clear in the writings of many others including Kindleberger, Shiller, Thaler and DeLong.&nbsp;The assumption of rational optimizing individuals is used only as an approximation to reality, and good economists understand its limits. Many of the major insights in behavioral economics were reached decades ago and are incorporated into modern economic theory and practice. Policy ideas like transactions taxes and “nudges” that are premised on irrationality have mostly come from economists.</p>
<p>Fareed also asserts that countries do not profit maximize as if this is a critique of economics.&nbsp; I am not aware of any economist who has held that they do profit maximize.&nbsp; Nor contrary to his assertion am I aware of economists who have asserted that income is the principle determinant of voting behavior.</p>
<p>An assessment of changes in the relevance of economics must also consider areas where economic analysis has become increasingly important.&nbsp; Issues of choice and charter schools first pushed by economists are central in debates about education policy.&nbsp; Systems of paying for outcomes rather than inputs, which have the potential to revolutionize health care reimbursement, are the product of economic reasoning and research.&nbsp; Environmental policy debates revolve around market-based schemes for discouraging pollution and encouraging clean approaches to production.&nbsp; Few areas of society are uninfluenced by big data and machine learning which are the latest incarnation of econometrics.</p>
<p>Economics can only lose its role if there is something to supplant it. Fareed is enthusiastic about what other disciplines can contribute. I share his hope but would note that he does not point to specific ideas or frameworks emanating from other disciplines that have contributed to policy in recent years. There are certainly examples of research from other social sciences which have had an important impact on public policy – but, I would submit, not nearly enough to suggest that economics can be pushed to the sidelines.</p>
<p>I will conclude by being very explicit on one point.&nbsp; I am not arguing against the importance of the evolution in thinking regarding public policy that has taken place since the Reagan-Thatcher era or even since the Clinton-Blair era.&nbsp; For reasons that reflect both progress in understanding the world, and changes in its structure, I and most other economists are more concerned with issues of redistribution, regulation, monopoly and maintaining demand than we would have been a quarter century ago.&nbsp; As Keynes famously said “When I get new information, I change my mind.&nbsp; And you?”</p>
<p>Managing globalization, supporting a healthy middle class in an era of artificial intelligence, and incentivizing the preservation of the planet must be among the central challenges, if not <em>the </em>central challenges, of our era. If not from economic analysis, it is hard to see where resolutions will come from. Everyone, whether they like economics and economists, or whether they resent and distrust current economics, has a stake in the discipline being relevant and successful going forward.</p>
