---
layout: post
title: "NBER March 11, 2019"
description: ""
category: 经济学
tags: [工作论文]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<p><strong>Trade Shocks and the Shifting Landscape of U.S. Manufacturing</strong></p>
<p>Katherine Eriksson&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Katheryn Russ&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jay C. Shambaugh&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Minfei Xu&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Using data over more than a century, we show that shifts in the location of manufacturing industries are a domestic reflection of what the international trade literature refers to as the product cycle in a cross-country context, with industries spawning in high-wage areas with larger pools of educated workers and moving to lower-wage areas with less education as they age or become “standardized.” We exploit the China shock industries as a set of industries that were in the late-stage product cycle by 1990 and show how the activity in those industries shifted from high-innovation areas to low-education areas over the 20th century. The analysis also suggests that the resilience of local labor markets to manufacturing shocks depends on local industries’ phase in the product cycle, on local education levels, and on local manufacturing wages. The risk of unemployment and detachment from the labor force rises most when a shock hits in areas where an industry already has begun phasing out, wages are high, or education levels are low. The results are consistent with the belief that there are long-term, secular trends in U.S. industrial structure driving the movement of industries, which shocks may mitigate or accelerate.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25646
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Getting Smart About Phones: New Price Indexes and the Allocation of Spending Between Devices and Services Plans in Personal Consumption Expenditures</strong></p>
<p>Ana Aizcorbe&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;David M. Byrne&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Daniel E. Sichel&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
This paper addresses two measurement issues for mobile phones.  First, we develop a new mobile phone price index using hedonic quality-adjusted prices for smartphones and a matched-model index for feature phones.  Our index falls at an average annual rate of 17 percent during 2010-2018, close to the rate of decline in the price index used in the GDP Accounts.  Given relatively flat average prices over this period, our index points to substantial quality improvement.  Second, we propose a methodology to disentangle purchases of phones and wireless services when they are bundled together as part of a long-term service contract.  Getting the allocation right is especially important for real PCE because the price deflators for phones and wireless services exhibit very different trends.  Our adjusted estimates suggest that real PCE spending currently captured in the category Cellular Phone Services increased 4 percentage points faster than is reflected in published data.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25645
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Who's Paying Attention? Measuring Common Ownership and Its Impact on Managerial Incentives</strong></p>
<p>Erik P. Gilje&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Todd Gormley&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Doron Y. Levit&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We derive a measure that captures the extent to which overlapping ownership structures shift managers’ incentives to internalize externalities. A key feature of the measure is that it allows for the possibility that not all investors are attentive to whether a manager’s actions benefit the investor’s overall portfolio. Empirically, we show that potential drivers of ownership overlap, including mergers in the asset management industry and the growth of indexing, could in fact diminish managerial motives. Our findings illustrate the importance of accounting for investor inattention and cast doubt on the possibility that the growth of common ownership has had a significant impact on managerial incentives.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25644
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Understanding Overlapping Policies: Internal Carbon Leakage and the Punctured Waterbed</strong></p>
<p>Grischa Perino&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Robert A. Ritz&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Arthur van Benthem&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We present an integrated framework to understand the emissions impact of unilateral overlapping policies within a carbon-pricing system. "Internal carbon leakage" captures emissions displacement within the system (e.g., due to greater product imports from a neighbouring country). The waterbed effect captures the policy's interaction with the system's overall emissions cap. Current market rules in the reformed EU ETS, California's carbon market and RGGI feature "punctured" waterbeds that allow overlapping policies to affect aggregate emissions. We present simple formulae to estimate internal carbon leakage for different types of policy such as a carbon price floor (perhaps with a border tax adjustment), an energy efficiency program, and renewables support. The sign and magnitude of the climate benefit from an overlapping policy varies widely depending on its design, location and timing. Punctured waterbeds raise the stakes: well-designed overlapping policies can be much more climate-effective but others now backfire.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25643
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Disability and Distress: The Effect of Disability Programs on Financial Outcomes</strong></p>
<p>Manasi Deshpande&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Tal Gross&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Yalun Su&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We provide the first evidence on the relationship between disability programs and markers of financial distress: bankruptcy, foreclosure, eviction, and home sale. Rates of these adverse financial events peak around the time of disability application and subsequently fall for both allowed and denied applicants. To estimate the causal effect of disability programs on these outcomes, we use variation induced by an age-based eligibility rule and find that disability allowance substantially reduces the likelihood of adverse financial events. Within three years of the decision, the likelihood of bankruptcy falls by 0.81 percentage point (30 percent), and the likelihood of foreclosure and home sale among homeowners falls by 1.7 percentage points (30 percent) and 2.5 percentage points (20 percent), respectively. We find suggestive evidence of reductions in eviction rates. Conversely, the likelihood of home purchases increases by 0.86 percentage point (20 percent) within three years. We present evidence that these changes reflect true reductions in financial distress. In our model of optimal disability benefits, considering these extreme events increases optimal disability benefits and potentially shortens waiting times.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25642
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>School Bus Emissions, Student Health, and Academic Performance</strong></p>
<p>Wes Austin&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Garth Heutel&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Daniel Kreisman&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Diesel emissions from school buses expose children to high levels of air pollution; retrofitting bus engines can substantially reduce this exposure. Using variation from 2,656 retrofits across Georgia, we estimate effects of  emissions reductions on district-level health and academic achievement. We demonstrate positive effects on respiratory health, measured by a statewide test of aerobic capacity. Placebo tests on body mass index show no impact. We also find that retrofitting districts see significant test score gains in English and smaller gains in math. Results suggest that engine retrofits can have meaningful and cost-effective impacts on health and cognitive functioning.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25641
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Ethnic Inequality and Poverty in Malaysia Since 1969</strong></p>
<p>Martin Ravallion&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Ethnic riots broke out in Malaysia in 1969, prompting a national effort at affirmative action favoring the poorer (majority) of “Bumiputera” (mainly Malays). Since then, Malaysia’s official poverty measures indicate one of the fastest long-term rates of poverty reduction in the world, due to both economic growth and falling inequality. Did ethnic inequality fall since 1969 and was that a key factor in the country’s success in reducing poverty and in managing inequality? New measures in this paper indicate a substantial decline in relative ethnic inequality. This brought down national relative inequality, though not enough to prevent rising absolute inequality, given the initial disparities. A new analytic decomposition of the rate of poverty reduction reveals that ethnic redistribution helped reduce poverty, although it was not as important as the overall rate of growth in household incomes. Despite past progress in reducing ethnic inequality, the responsiveness of the national poverty rate to ethnic redistribution remains high even today.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25640
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Immigrants' Earnings Growth and Return Migration from the U.S.: Examining their Determinants using Linked Survey and Administrative Data</strong></p>
<p>Randall Akee&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Maggie R. Jones&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Using a novel panel data set of recent immigrants to the U.S. (2005–2007) from individual-level linked U.S. Census Bureau survey data and Internal Revenue Service administrative records, we identify the determinants of return migration and earnings assimilation. We show that by 10 years after arrival almost 40 percent have return migrated. We show, for the first time, that return migrants experience downward earnings mobility over two to three years prior to their return migration. This finding suggests that economic shocks are closely related to emigration decisions. As a result, standard calculations of immigrants earnings growth may be understated.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25639
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Return to Protectionism</strong></p>
<p>Pablo D. Fajgelbaum&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Pinelopi K. Goldberg&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Patrick J. Kennedy&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Amit K. Khandelwal&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We analyze the short-run impacts of the 2018 trade war on the U.S. economy. We estimate import demand and export supply elasticities using changes in U.S. and retaliatory tariffs over time. Imports from targeted countries decline 31.5% within products, while targeted U.S. exports fall 11.0%. We find complete pass-through of U.S. tariffs to variety-level import prices. We compute the aggregate and regional impacts in a general equilibrium framework that matches these elasticities. Annual consumer and producer losses from higher costs of imports are $68.8 billion (0.37% of GDP). After accounting for higher tariff revenue and gains to domestic producers from higher prices, the aggregate welfare effect is a $7.8 billion loss (0.04% of GDP). U.S. tariffs favored sectors located in politically competitive counties, but retaliatory tariffs offset the benefits to these counties. We compute that tradeable-sector workers in heavily Republican counties are the most negatively affected by the trade war.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25638
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Deadweight Loss of Social Recognition</strong></p>
<p>Luigi Butera&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Robert Metcalfe&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;William Morrison&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dmitry Taubinsky&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
A growing body of empirical work shows that social recognition of individuals' behavior can meaningfully influence individuals’ choices. This paper studies whether social recognition is a socially efficient lever for influencing individuals’ choices. Because social recognition generates utility from esteem to some but disutility from shame to others, it can be either positive-sum, zero-sum, or negative-sum. This depends on whether the social recognition utility function is convex, linear, or concave, respectively. We develop a new revealed preferences methodology to investigate this question, which we deploy in a field experiment on promoting attendance to the YMCA of the Triangle Area. We find that social recognition increases YMCA attendance by 17-23% over a one-month period in our experiment, and our estimated structural models predict that it would increase attendance by 19-23% if it were applied to the whole YMCA of the Triangle Area population. However, we find that the social recognition utility function is significantly concave and thus generates deadweight loss. If our social recognition intervention were applied to the whole YMCA of the Triangle Area population, we estimate that it would generate deadweight loss of $1.23-$2.15 per dollar of behaviorally-equivalent financial incentives.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25637
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Optimal Environmental Targeting in the Amazon Rainforest</strong></p>
<p>Juliano Assunção&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Robert McMillan&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Joshua Murphy&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Eduardo Souza-Rodrigues&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
This paper sets out an empirically-driven approach for targeting environmental policies optimally in order to combat deforestation. We focus on the Amazon, the world's most extensive rainforest, where Brazil's federal government issued a ‘Priority List’ of municipalities in 2008, to be targeted with more intense environmental monitoring and enforcement. In this setting, we first estimate the causal impact of the Priority List on deforestation using ‘changes-in-changes’ (Athey and Imbens, 2006), a flexible treatment effects estimation method, finding that it reduced deforestation by 40 percent and cut emissions by 39.5 million tons of carbon.  Second, we develop a novel framework for computing targeted ex-post optimal blacklists. This involves a procedure for assigning municipalities to a counterfactual list that minimizes total deforestation subject to realistic resource constraints, drawing on the ex-post treatment effect estimates from the first part of the analysis.  Accounting for spillovers, we show that the ex-post optimal list resulted in carbon emissions over 7.4 percent lower than the actual list, amounting to savings of more than $900 million, and emissions over 25 percent lower (on average) than a randomly selected list. The approach we propose is relevant for assessing both targeted counterfactual policies to reduce deforestation and quantifying the impacts of policy targeting more generally.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25636
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Do Public Firms Respond to Industry Opportunities More Than Private Firms? The Impact of Initial Firm Quality</strong></p>
<p>Vojislav Maksimovic&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Gordon M. Phillips&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Liu Yang&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We track firms at birth and compare the growth pattern of IPO firms and their birth-matched counterparts. Firms that are larger at birth with faster initial growth are more likely to attain a larger size later in life and go public. Firms in the top percentile of predicted propensity to go public grow 29 times larger fifteen years later than matched firms if they actually become public, and 14 times larger if they stay private, showing a large selection effect. We show that public firms, and especially those public firms backed by venture capital, respond more to demand shocks post-IPO.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25634
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Leading Premium</strong></p>
<p>M. Max Croce&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Tatyana Marchuk&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Christian Schlag&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
In this paper, we compute conditional measures of lead-lag relationships between GDP growth and industry-level cash-flow growth in the US. Our results show that firms in leading industries pay an average annualized return 4% higher than that of firms in lagging industries. Using both time series and cross sectional tests, we estimate an annual timing premium ranging from 1.5% to 2%. This finding can be rationalized in a model in which (a) agents price growth news shocks, and (b) leading industries provide valuable resolution of uncertainty about the growth prospects of lagging industries.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25633
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Information Source and Cigarettes: Experimental Evidence on the Messenger Effect</strong></p>
<p>Johanna Catherine Maclean&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;John Buckell&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Joachim Marti&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We examine the importance of information source (the ‘messenger’) on consumer choice in the context of cigarettes, electronic and tobacco. We proxy choice with intentions to use cigarettes and risk perceptions. We experimentally vary the messenger across three information sources: government, physicians, and private companies. We compare effects relative to a no source control in a sample of adult smokers. Neoclassical theory predicts that the information source, or the messenger, should not influence choices. Behavioral economics suggests that the messenger can have important implications for how consumers process information and, in turn, make decisions. Our findings provide evidence in line with behavioral economics: the messenger influences intention to use e-cigarettes, and risk perceptions about e-cigarettes and tobacco cigarettes. Private companies appear to be particularly important messengers and are potentially the economic agents most likely to shape the future adult demand for cigarettes.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25632
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Environmental Policy and Innovation: A Decade of Research</strong></p>
<p>David Popp&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Innovation is an important part of environmental policy, and encouraging innovation is often an explicit goal of policymakers.  A large literature in environmental economics examines the links between environmental policy and innovation.  Popp et al. (2010) provides an extensive review of the literature on environmental innovation.  This paper updates that review, highlighting research published during the past decade, with a focus on empirical research examining links between environmental policy and environmentally friendly innovation.  I highlight major trends in the literature, including an increased number of cross-country studies and a focus on the effect of different policy instruments on innovation.  I include a discussion of the justifications and evidence for technology-specific policy incentives and present evidence on the effectiveness of government R&D spending.  My review concludes with a discussion of three promising areas for new research on environmental innovation.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25631
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Long-run Effects from Comprehensive Student Support: Evidence from Pathways to Education</strong></p>
<p>Adam M. Lavecchia&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Philip Oreopoulos&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Robert S. Brown&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We estimate long-run impacts to the Pathways to Education program, a comprehensive set of coaching, tutoring, group activities and financial incentives offered to disadvantaged students beginning in Grade 9.  High school administrative records are matched to income tax records to follow individuals up to the age of 28, even when they leave the household or province.  We find significant positive effects on persistence in postsecondary education institutions, earnings and employment. Program eligibility increased adult annual earnings by 19 percent, employment by 14 percent and reduced social assistance (welfare) receipt by more than a third.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25630
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Recovery of 1933</strong></p>
<p>Margaret M. Jacobson&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Eric M. Leeper&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Bruce Preston&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
When Roosevelt abandoned the gold standard in April 1933, he converted what had been effectively real government debt into nominal government debt to open the door to unbacked fiscal expansion. We argue that he followed a state-contingent fiscal rule that ran nominal-debt-financed primary deficits until the price level rose and economic activity recovered. Theory suggests that government spending multipliers can be substantially larger when fiscal expansions are unbacked than when they are tax-backed. VAR estimates find that primary deficits made quantitatively important contributions to raising both the price level and real GNP from 1933 through 1937. The evidence does not support the conventional monetary explanation that gold revaluation and gold inflows, which were permitted to raise the monetary base, drove the recovery independently of fiscal actions.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25629
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Aggregate Nominal Wage Adjustments:  New Evidence from Administrative Payroll Data</strong></p>
<p>John Grigsby&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Erik Hurst&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Ahu Yildirmaz&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Using administrative payroll data from the largest U.S. payroll processing company, we document a series of new facts about nominal wage adjustments in the United States. The data allow us to define a worker's per-period base contract wage separately from other forms of compensation such as bonuses. We provide evidence that the extent to which base wages adjust is likely the appropriate concept of wage stickiness in many macro models. Nominal base wage declines are much rarer than previously thought with only 2% of job-stayers receiving a nominal base wage cut during a given year. However, accounting for shifts in nominal base wages of job-changers implies that aggregate nominal wages are more flexible than the nominal wages of job-stayers. In addition, we provide evidence that the flexibility of new hire base wages is similar to that of existing workers. Finally, nominal base wage adjustments are state-dependent: downward aggregate nominal wage adjustments were much more common during the Great Recession than in the subsequent recovery period. Throughout, we highlight differences in the adjustment patterns of base wages and of broader wage measures that include bonuses. Collectively, our results can be used to discipline models of nominal wage rigidity.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25628
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>A Practical Method to Reduce Privacy Loss when Disclosing Statistics Based on Small Samples</strong></p>
<p>Raj Chetty&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;John N. Friedman&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We develop a simple method to reduce privacy loss when disclosing statistics such as OLS regression estimates based on samples with small numbers of observations. We focus on the case where the dataset can be broken into many groups (“cell”) and one is interested in releasing statistics for one or more of these cells. Building on ideas from the differential privacy literature, we add noise to the statistic of interest in proportion to the statistic's maximum observed sensitivity, defined as the maximum change in the statistic from adding or removing a single observation across all the cells in the data. Intuitively, our approach permits the release of statistics in arbitrarily small samples by adding sufficient noise to the estimates to protect privacy. Although our method does not offer a formal privacy guarantee, it generally outperforms widely used methods of disclosure limitation such as count-based cell suppression both in terms of privacy loss and statistical bias. We illustrate how the method can be implemented by discussing how it was used to release estimates of social mobility by Census tract in the Opportunity Atlas. We also provide a step-by-step guide and illustrative Stata code to implement our approach.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25626
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  