---
layout: post
title: "NBER April 15, 2019"
description: ""
category: 经济学
tags: [工作论文]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<p><strong>The Impact of Parental Involvement Laws on Minor Abortion</strong></p>
<p>Theodore J. Joyce&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Robert Kaestner&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jason Ward&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
In this article, we conduct a comprehensive analysis of the effect of parental involvement (PI) laws on the incidence of abortions to minors across a span of nearly three decades. We contribute to the extant literature on this topic in several ways. First, we explore differences in estimates of the effect of PI laws across time that may result from changes in contraception, the composition of pregnant minors, access to confidential abortions in nearby states, or through judicial bypass, and the degree to which these laws are enforced. We find that, on average, PI laws enacted before the mid-1990s are associated with a 15% to 20% reduction in minor abortions. PI laws enacted after this time are not, on average, associated with declines in abortions to minors. Second, we assess the role of out-of-state travel by minors, estimating models that allow the effect of PI laws to differ by the distance to the nearest state without a PI law. We find that out-of-state travel is not a substantive moderating factor of the effect of PI laws. Third, we use a synthetic control approach to explore state-level heterogeneity in the effect of PI laws and find large differences in the impact of PI laws on minor abortions by state. These differences are unrelated to the type of law (consent versus notification) or whether contiguous states have enacted PI laws. Finally, we show that estimates of the effect of PI laws using data from either the Centers for Disease Control or the Alan Guttmacher Institute do not differ qualitatively once differences in coverage by state and year across these data are harmonized.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25758
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Rational Illiquidity and Excess Sensitivity: Theory and Evidence from Income Tax Withholding and Refunds</strong></p>
<p>Michael Gelman&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Shachar Kariv&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Matthew D. Shapiro&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dan Silverman&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
There is a tight relationship between having low liquidity and a high marginal propensity to consume both in theoretical models and in econometric evidence about behavior.  This paper analyzes the theory and behavior surrounding income tax withholding and refunds. It develops a model where rational cash management with asymmetric cost of increasing or decreasing liquidity endogenizes the relationship between illiquidity and excess sensitivity. The analysis accounts for the finding that households tend to spend tax refunds as if they were liquidity constrained despite the fact that they could increase liquidity by reducing withholding. The model’s predictions are supported by evidence from a large panel of individuals.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25757
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>What Happened to U.S. Business Dynamism?</strong></p>
<p>Ufuk Akcigit&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sina T. Ates&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
In the past several decades, the U.S. economy has witnessed a number of striking trends that indicate a rising market concentration and a slowdown in business dynamism. In this paper, we make an attempt to understand potential common forces behind these empirical regularities through the lens of a micro-founded general equilibrium model of endogenous firm dynamics. Importantly, the theoretical model captures the strategic behavior between competing firms, its effect on their innovation decisions, and the resulting “best versus the rest” dynamics. We focus on multiple potential mechanisms that can potentially drive the observed changes and use the calibrated model to assess the relative importance of these channels with particular attention to the implied transitional dynamics. Our results highlight the dominant role of a decline in the intensity of knowledge diffusion from the frontier firms to the laggard ones in explaining the observed shifts. We conclude by presenting new evidence that corroborates a declining knowledge diffusion in the economy. We document a higher concentration of patenting in the hands of firms with the largest stock and a changing nature of patents, especially in the post-2000 period, which suggests a heavy use of intellectual property protection by market leaders to limit the diffusion of knowledge. These findings present a potential avenue for future research on the drivers of declining knowledge diffusion.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25756
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Ten Facts on Declining Business Dynamism and Lessons from Endogenous Growth Theory</strong></p>
<p>Ufuk Akcigit&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sina T. Ates&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
In this paper, we review the literature on declining business dynamism and its implications in the United States and propose a unifying theory to analyze the symptoms and the potential causes of this decline. We first highlight 10 pronounced stylized facts related to declining business dynamism documented in the literature and discuss some of the existing attempts to explain them. We then describe a theoretical framework of endogenous markups, innovation, and competition that can potentially speak to all of these facts jointly. We next explore some theoretical predictions of this framework, which are shaped by two interacting forces: a "composition effect" that determines the market concentration and an "incentive effect" that determines how firms respond to a given concentration in the economy. The results highlight that a decline in "knowledge diffusion" between frontier and laggard firms could be a significant driver of empirical trends observed in the data. This study emphasizes the potential of growth theory for the analysis of factors behind declining business dynamism and the need for further investigation in this direction.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25755
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>A Forensic Examination of China's National Accounts</strong></p>
<p>Wei Chen&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Xilu Chen&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Chang-Tai Hsieh&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Zheng Song&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
China’s national accounts are based on data collected by local governments.  However, since local governments are rewarded for meeting growth and investment targets, they have an incentive to skew local statistics.  China’s National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) adjusts the data provided by local governments to calculate GDP at the national level.  The adjustments made by the NBS average 5% of GDP since the mid-2000s.  On the production side, the discrepancy between local and aggregate GDP is entirely driven by the gap between local and national estimates of industrial output.  On the expenditure side, the gap is in investment.  Local statistics increasingly misrepresent the true numbers after 2008, but there was no corresponding change in the adjustment made by the NBS.  Using publicly available data, we provide revised estimates of local and national GDP by re-estimating output of industrial, construction, wholesale and retail firms using data on value-added taxes.  We also use several local economic indicators that are less likely to be manipulated by local governments to estimate local and aggregate GDP.  The estimates also suggest that the adjustments by the NBS were insufficient after 2008.  Relative to the official numbers, we estimate that GDP growth from 2010-2016 is 1.8 percentage points lower and the investment and savings rate in 2016 is 7 percentage points lower.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25754
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Returns to Early-life Interventions for Very Low Birth Weight Children</strong></p>
<p>Eric Chyn&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Samantha Gold&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Justine S. Hastings&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We use comprehensive administrative data from Rhode Island to measure the impact of early-life interventions for low birth weight newborns on later-life outcomes. We use a regression discontinuity design based on the 1,500-gram threshold for Very Low Birth Weight (VLBW) status. We show that threshold crossing causes more intense in-hospital care, in line with prior studies. Threshold crossing also causes a 0.34 standard deviation increase in test scores in elementary and middle school, a 17.1 percentage point increase in the probability of college enrollment, and $66,997 decrease in social program expenditures by age 14. We explore potential mechanisms driving these impacts.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25753
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Censorship, Family Planning, and the Historical Fertility Transition</strong></p>
<p>Brian Beach&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;W. Walker Hanlon&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
The historical fertility transition is one of the most important events in economic history. This study provides new evidence on the role of information and social norms in this transition. We begin by documenting a causal relationship between the public release of information on the morality of engaging in family planning that resulted from the famous Bradlaugh-Besant trial of 1877 and Britain's subsequent fertility decline. We then show that the release of this information had nearly simultaneous effects among British-origin populations abroad, in Canada, South Africa, Australia and the United States. These findings highlight the importance of information and changing social norms in the historical fertility transition, as well as the role that cultural and linguistic ties played in transmitting these changes around the world.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25752
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Can the Market Multiply and Divide? Non-Proportional Thinking in Financial Markets</strong></p>
<p>Kelly Shue&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Richard R. Townsend&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Nominal stock prices are arbitrary. Therefore, when evaluating how a piece of news should affect the price of a stock, rational investors should think in percentage rather than dollar terms. However, dollar price changes are ubiquitously reported and discussed. This may both cause and reflect a tendency of investors to think about the impact of news in dollar terms, leading to more extreme return responses to news for lower-priced stocks. We find a number of results consistent with such non-proportional thinking. First, lower-priced stocks have higher total volatility, idiosyncratic volatility, and market betas, after controlling flexibly for size. To identify a causal effect of price, we show that volatility increases sharply following pre-announced stock splits and drops following reverse stock splits. The returns of lower-priced stocks also respond more strongly to firm-specific news events, all else equal. The economic magnitudes are large: a doubling in a stock's nominal price is associated with a 20-30% decline in its volatility, beta, and return response to firm-specific news. These patterns are not exclusive to small, illiquid stocks; they hold even among the largest stocks. Non-proportional thinking can explain a variety of asset pricing anomalies such as long-run and short-run reversals, as well as the negative relation between past returns and volatility (i.e., the leverage effect). Our analysis also shows that the well-documented negative relation between risk (volatility or beta) and size is actually driven by nominal prices rather than fundamentals.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25751
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>How Cognitive Ability and Financial Literacy Shape the Demand for Financial Advice at Older Ages</strong></p>
<p>Hugh Hoikwang Kim&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Raimond Maurer&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Olivia S. Mitchell&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We investigate how cognitive ability and financial literacy shape older Americans’ demand for financial advice using an experimental module in the 2016 Health and Retirement Study. We show that cognitive ability and financial literacy strongly improve the quality, but not the quantity, of financial advice sought. Most importantly, the financially literate and more cognitively able tend to seek financial help from professionals rather than family members, and they are less likely to accept so-called ‘free’ financial advice that may entail conflicts of interest. Nevertheless, those with higher cognitive function also tend to distrust financial advisors, leading them to eschew their services.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25750
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Job Displacement Insurance and (the Lack of) Consumption-Smoothing</strong></p>
<p>François Gerard&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Joana Naritomi&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
The most common forms of government-mandated job displacement insurance are Severance Pay (SP; lump-sum payments at layoff) and Unemployment Insurance (UI; periodic payments contingent on nonemployment). While there is a vast literature on UI, SP programs have received much less attention, even though they are prevalent across countries and predominant in developing countries. In particular, little is known about their insurance value, which critically relies on workers’ ability to dissave the lump-sum progressively to smooth consumption after layoff. Using de-identified high-frequency expenditure data and matched employee-employer data from Brazil, we find that displaced workers eligible for both UI and SP increase consumption at layoff by 35% despite experiencing a 17% consumption loss after they stop receiving any benefits. Moreover, this sensitivity of consumer spending to cash-on-hand is present across spending categories and sources of variation in UI benefits and SP amounts. We show that a simple structural model with present-biased workers can rationalize our findings, and we use it to illustrate their implications for the incentive-insurance trade-off between SP and UI. Specifically, the insurance value of SP programs – or of other policies that provide liquidity to workers at layoff – can be severely reduced when consumption is over-sensitive to the timing of benefit disbursement, undermining their advantage in terms of job-search incentives. Our findings highlight the importance of the difference between SP and UI in their disbursement policy, and shed new light on the need for job displacement insurance in a developing country context.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25749
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Why is Productivity Correlated with Competition?</strong></p>
<p>Matthew Backus&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
The correlation between productivity and competition is an oft–observed but ill–understood result. Some suggest that there is a treatment effect of competition on measured productivity, e.g. through a reduction of managerial slack. Others argue that greater competition makes unproductive establishments exit by reallocating demand to their productive rivals, raising observed average productivity via selection. I study the ready-mix concrete industry and offer three perspectives on this ambivalence. First, using a standard decomposition approach, I find no evidence of greater reallocation of demand to productive plants in more competitive markets. Second, I model the establishment exit decision and construct a semi-parametric selection correction to quantify the empirical significance of treatment and selection. Finally, I use a grouped IV quantile regression to test the distributional predictions of the selection hypothesis. I find no evidence for greater selection or reallocation in more competitive markets; instead, all three results suggest that measured productivity responds directly to competition. Potential channels include specialization and managerial inputs.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25748
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Reflexivity in Credit Markets</strong></p>
<p>Robin Greenwood&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Samuel G. Hanson&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Lawrence J. Jin&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Reflexivity is the idea that investors' biased beliefs affect market outcomes, and that market outcomes in turn affect investors' beliefs. We develop a behavioral model of the credit cycle featuring such a two-way feedback loop. In our model, investors form beliefs about firms' creditworthiness, in part, by extrapolating past default rates. Investor beliefs influence firms' actual creditworthiness because firms that can refinance maturing debt on favorable terms are less likely to default in the short-run—even if fundamentals do not justify investors' generosity. Our model is able to match many features of credit booms and busts, including the imperfect synchronization of credit cycles with the real economy, the negative relationship between past credit growth and the future return on risky bonds, and "calm before the storm" periods in which firm fundamentals have deteriorated but the credit market has not yet turned.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25747
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Dishonest Behavior: Sin Big or Go Home</strong></p>
<p>Jason A. Aimone&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Brittany Ward&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;James E. West&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Economic agents face many different types of economic incentives when making financial and moral decisions.  We provide experimental data from a population that uniquely responds to incentives to lie compared to previously studied populations. We conduct a standard 6-sided die rolling lying study within a population that believes that God has knowledge of all their actions.  Within this population, we find that those who attend church frequently appear to refrain from lying while those that do not frequently attend church do lie, but do not disguise their lies like more secular populations.  We further explain how our data fits into the theoretical work on lying.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25746
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Tax Professionals: Tax-Evasion Facilitators or Information Hubs?</strong></p>
<p>Marco Battaglini&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Luigi Guiso&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Chiara Lacava&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Eleonora Patacchini&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
To study the role of tax professionals, we merge tax records of 2.5 million taxpayers in Italy with the respective audit files from the tax revenue agency. Our data covers the entire population of sole proprietorship taxpayers in seven regions, followed over seven fiscal years. We first document that tax evasion is systematically correlated with the average evasion of other customers of the same tax professional. We then exploit the unique structure of our dataset to study the channels through which these social spillover effects are generated. Guided by an equilibrium model of tax compliance with tax professionals and auditing, we highlight two mechanisms that may be behind this phenomenon: self-selection of taxpayers who sort themselves into professionals of heterogeneous tolerance for tax evasion; and informational externalities generated by the tax professional activities. We provide evidence supporting the simultaneous presence of both mechanisms.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25745
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Five Facts About Beliefs and Portfolios</strong></p>
<p>Stefano Giglio&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Matteo Maggiori&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Johannes Stroebel&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Stephen Utkus&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We administer a newly-designed survey to a large panel of retail investors who have substantial wealth invested in financial markets. The survey elicits beliefs that are crucial for macroeconomics and finance, and matches respondents with administrative data on their portfolio composition and their trading activity. We establish five facts in this data: (1) Beliefs are reflected in portfolio allocations. The sensitivity of portfolios to beliefs is small on average, but varies significantly with investor wealth, attention, trading frequency, and confidence. (2) It is hard to predict when investors trade, but conditional on trading, belief changes affect both the direction and the magnitude of trades. (3) Beliefs are mostly characterized by large and persistent individual heterogeneity; demographic characteristics explain only a small part of why some individuals are optimistic and some are pessimistic. (4) Investors who expect higher cash flow growth also expect higher returns and lower long-term price-dividend ratios. (5) Expected returns and the subjective probability of rare disasters are negatively related, both within and across investors. These five facts challenge the rational expectation framework for macro-finance, and provide important guidance for the design of behavioral models.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25744
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Some International Evidence for Keynesian Economics without the Phillips Curve</strong></p>
<p>Roger Farmer&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Giovanni Nicolò&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Farmer and Nicolò (2018) show that the Farmer Monetary (FM)-Model outperforms the three-equation New-Keynesian (NK)-model in post-war U.S.  data. In this paper, we compare the marginal data density of the FM-model with marginal data densities for determinate and indeterminate versions of the NK-model for three separate samples using U.S., U.K. and Canadian data. We estimate versions of both models that restrict the parameters of the private sector equations to be the same for all three countries.  Our preferred specification is the constrained version of the FM-model which has a marginal data density that is more than 30 log points higher than the NK alternative.  Our findings also demonstrate that cross-country macroeconomic differences are well explained by the different shocks that hit each economy and by differences in the ways in which national central banks reacted to those shocks.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25743
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>In-Text Patent Citations: A User's Guide</strong></p>
<p>Kevin A. Bryan&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Yasin Ozcan&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Bhaven N. Sampat&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We introduce, validate, and provide a public database of a new measure of the knowledge inventors draw on: scientific references in patent specifications. These references are common and algorithmically extractable. Critically, they are very different from the “front page” prior art commonly used to proxy for inventor knowledge. Only 24% of front page citations to academic articles are in the patent text, and 31% of in-text citations are on the front page. We explain these differences by describing the legal rules and practice governing citation. Empirical validations suggest that in-text citations appear to more accurately measure real knowledge flows, consistent with their legal role.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25742
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Trade, Technology, and the Great Divergence</strong></p>
<p>Kevin Hjortshøj O'Rourke&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Ahmed Rahman&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Alan M. Taylor&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Why did per capita income divergence occur so dramatically during the 19th Century, rather than at the outset of the Industrial Revolution? How were some countries able to reverse this trend during the globalization of the late 20th Century? To answer these questions, this paper develops a trade-and-growth model that captures the key features of the Industrial Revolution and Great Divergence between a core industrializing region and a peripheral and potentially lagging region. The model includes both endogenous biased technological change and intercontinental trade. An Industrial Revolution begins as a sequence of more unskilled-labor-intensive innovations in both regions. We show that the subsequent co-evolution of trade and directed technologies can create a delayed but inevitable divergence in demographics and living standards—the peripheral region increasingly specializes in production that worsens its terms of trade and spurs even greater fertility increases and educational declines. Allowing for technological diffusion between regions can mitigate and even reverse divergence, spurring a reversal of fortune for peripheral regions.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25741
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Taxation and Migration: Evidence and Policy Implications</strong></p>
<p>Henrik Kleven&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Camille Landais&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Mathilde Muñoz&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Stefanie Stantcheva&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
In this article, we review a growing empirical literature on the effects of personal taxation on the geographic mobility of people and discuss its policy implications. We start by laying out the empirical challenges that prevented progress in this area until recently, and then discuss how recent work have made use of new data sources and quasi-experimental approaches to credibly estimate migration responses. This body of work has shown that certain segments of the labor market, especially high-income workers and professions with little location-specific human capital, may be quite responsive to taxes in their location decisions. When considering the implications for tax policy design, we distinguish between uncoordinated and coordinated tax policy. We highlight the importance of recognizing that mobility elasticities are not exogenous, structural parameters. They can vary greatly depending on the population being analyzed, the size of the tax jurisdiction, the extent of tax policy coordination, and a range of non-tax policies. While migration responses add to the efficiency costs of redistributing income, we caution against over-using the recent evidence of (sizeable) mobility responses to taxes as an argument for less redistribution in a globalized world.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25740
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Return to Hours Worked Within and Across Occupations: Implications for the Gender Wage Gap</strong></p>
<p>Jeffrey T. Denning&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Brian Jacob&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Lars Lefgren&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Christian vom Lehn&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We document two empirical phenomena. First, the observational wage returns to hours worked within occupation is small, and even negative in some specifications. Second, the wage return to average hours worked across occupations is large. We develop a conceptual framework that reconciles these facts, where the key insight is that workers choose jobs as a bundle of compensation and expected hours worked. As an example, we apply this framework to the gender wage gap and show how it can explain the view expressed in recent work that hours differences between men and women represent a large and growing component of the gender wage gap.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25739
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Combining Administrative and Survey Data to Improve Income Measurement</strong></p>
<p>Bruce D. Meyer&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Nikolas Mittag&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We describe methods of combining administrative and survey data to improve the measurement of income.  We begin by decomposing the total survey error in the mean of survey reports of dollars received from a government transfer program.  We decompose this error into three parts, generalized coverage error (which combines coverage and unit non-response error and any error from weighting), item non-response or imputation error, and measurement error.  We then discuss these three sources of error in turn and how linked administrative and survey data can assess and reduce each of these sources.  We then illustrate the potential of linked data by showing how using linked administrative variables improves the measurement of income and poverty in the Current Population Survey, focusing on the substitution of administrative for survey data for three government transfer programs.  Finally, we discuss how one can examine the accuracy of the underlying links used in the combined data.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25738
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>An Empirical Total Survey Error Decomposition Using Data Combination</strong></p>
<p>Bruce D. Meyer&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Nikolas Mittag&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Survey error is known to be pervasive and to bias even simple, but important estimates of means, rates, and totals, such as the poverty and the unemployment rate. To summarize and analyze the extent, sources, and consequences of survey error, we define empirical counterparts of key components of the Total Survey Error Framework that can be estimated using data combination. Specifically, we estimate total survey error and decompose it into three high level sources of error: generalized coverage error, item non-response error and measurement error. We further decompose these sources into lower level sources such as a failure to report a positive amount and errors in amounts conditional on reporting a positive value.  For error in dollars paid by two large government transfer programs, we use administrative records on the universe of program payments in New York State linked to three major household surveys to estimate the error components we define. We find that total survey error is large and varies in its size and composition, but measurement error is always by far the largest source of error. Our application shows that data combination makes it possible to routinely measure total survey error and its components. The results allow survey producers to assess error reduction strategies and survey users to mitigate the consequences of survey errors or gauge the reliability of their conclusions.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25737
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Does Class Size Matter? How, and at What Cost?</strong></p>
<p>Desire Kedagni&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kala Krishna&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Rigissa Megalokonomou&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Yingyan Zhao&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Using high quality administrative data on Greece we show that class size has a hump shaped effect on achievement. We do so both nonparametrically and parametrically, while controlling for potential endogeneity and allowing for quantile effects. We then embed our estimates for this relationship in a dynamic structural model with costs of hiring and firing. </p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25736
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Intergenerational Mobility between and within Canada and the United States</strong></p>
<p>Marie Connolly&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Miles Corak&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Catherine Haeck&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Intergenerational income mobility is lower in the United States than in Canada, but varies significantly within each country. Our sub-national analysis finds that the national border only partially distinguishes the close to one thousand regions we analyze within these two countries. The Canada-US border divides Central and Eastern Canada from the Great Lakes regions and the Northeast of the United States. At the same time some Canadian regions have more in common with the low mobility southern parts of the United States than with the rest of Canada, and the fact that these areas represent a much larger fraction of the American population also explains why mobility is lower in the United States.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25735
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  