---
layout: post
title: "NBER March 25, 2019"
description: ""
category: 经济学
tags: [工作论文]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<p><strong>Memory and Representativeness</strong></p>
<p>Pedro Bordalo&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Katherine Coffman&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Nicola Gennaioli&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Frederik Schwerter&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Andrei Shleifer&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We explore the idea that judgment by representativeness reflects the workings of episodic memory, especially interference.  In a new laboratory experiment on cued recall, participants are shown two groups of images with different distributions of colors.  We find that i) decreasing the frequency of a given color in one group significantly increases the recalled frequency of that color in the other group, ii) for a fixed set of images, different cues for the same objective distribution entail different interference patterns and different probabilistic assessments. Selective retrieval and interference may offer a foundation for the representativeness heuristic, but more generally for understanding the formation of probability judgments from experienced statistical associations.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25692
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Identification of Causal Effects with Multiple Instruments: Problems and Some Solutions</strong></p>
<p>Magne Mogstad&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Alexander Torgovitsky&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Christopher R. Walters&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Empirical researchers often combine multiple instruments for a single treatment using two stage least squares (2SLS). When treatment effects are heterogeneous, a common justification for including multiple instruments is that the 2SLS estimand can still be interpreted as a positively-weighted average of local average treatment effects (LATEs). This justification requires the well-known monotonicity condition. However, we show that with more than one instrument, this condition can only be satisfied if choice behavior is effectively homogenous. Based on this finding, we consider the use of multiple instruments under a weaker, partial monotonicity condition. This condition is implied by standard choice theory and allows for richer heterogeneity. First, we show that the weaker partial monotonicity condition can still suffice for the 2SLS estimand to be a positively-weighted average of LATEs. We characterize a simple sufficient and necessary condition that empirical researchers can check to ensure positive weights. Second, we develop a general method for using multiple instruments to identify a wide range of causal parameters other than LATEs. The method allows researchers to combine multiple instruments to obtain more informative empirical conclusions than one would obtain by using each instrument separately.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25691
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Term Structure of Equity Risk Premia</strong></p>
<p>Ravi Bansal&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Shane Miller&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dongho Song&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Amir Yaron&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We use traded equity dividend strips from U.S., Europe, and Japan from 2004-2017 to study the slope of the term structure of equity dividend risk premia. In the data, a robust finding is that the term structure of dividend risk premia (growth rates) is positively (negatively) sloped in expansions and negatively (positively) sloped in recessions. We develop a consumption-based regime switching model which matches these robust data-features and the historical probabilities of recession and expansion regimes. The unconditional population term structure of dividend-risk premia in the regime-switching model, as in standard asset pricing models (habits and long-run risks), is increasing with maturity. The regime-switching model also features a declining average term structure of dividend risk-premia if recessions are over-represented in a short sample, as is the case in the data sample from Europe and Japan. In sum, our analysis shows that the empirical evidence in dividend strips is entirely consistent with a positively sloped term structure of dividend risk-premia as implied by standard asset pricing models.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25690
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Phenomenon of Summer Diarrhea and its Waning, 1910-1930</strong></p>
<p>D. Mark Anderson&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Daniel I. Rees&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Tianyi Wang&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
During the first two decades of the 20th century, diarrheal deaths among American infants and children surged every summer.  Although we still do not know what pathogen (or pathogens) caused this phenomenon, the consensus view is that it was eventually controlled through public health efforts at the municipal level.  Using data from 26 major American cities for the period 1910-1930, we document the phenomenon of summer diarrhea and explore its dissipation.  We find that water filtration is associated with a 15-17 percent reduction in diarrheal mortality among children under the age of two during the non-summer months, but does not seem to have had an effect on diarrheal mortality during the summer.  In general, we find little evidence to suggest that public health interventions undertaken at the municipal level contributed to the dissipation of summer diarrhea.  Our results are relevant for many parts of the developing world today, where climate change is expected to affect the length and intensity of seasons as well as the incidence of diarrheal diseases.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25689
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>A Short Note on Aggregating Productivity</strong></p>
<p>David Baqaee&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Emmanuel Farhi&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
This paper provides two simple and economically-interpretable decompositions for aggregate productivity analysis in the presence of distortions and in general equilibrium. In the process, we propose a new “distorted” Solow residual which, contrary to the traditional Solow residual, accurately measures changes in aggregate productivity in disaggregated economies with distortions. Our formulas apply to any collection of producers ranging from one isolated producer to an industry or to an entire economy. They can be useful for empiricists and theorists alike. Potential applications of these formulas include: (1) decomposing aggregate productivity into its microeconomic sources, separating technical and allocative efficiency; (2) aggregating microeconomic estimates (for example, from natural experiments) to assess macroeconomic effects; (3) constructing and interpreting aggregate counterfactuals. Despite their simplicity, the formulas are general, allowing for production networks, multi-product firms, and non-constant returns. They are also entirely nonparametric. They only assume market clearing and cost minimization.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25688
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Is a Decentralized Right-to-Work Policy Feasible?</strong></p>
<p>Martin Ravallion&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Evidence on the implementation of India’s National Rural Employment Guarantee Act suggests that the available work is often rationed by local leaders in poor areas, and that this is an important factor limiting the scheme’s impact on poverty. The paper offers explanations for this empirical finding, with likely relevance to other decentralized, rights-based, programs. It is shown that rationing of work opportunities can arise under decentralized implementation in poor places even when the center wants to honor the employment guarantee. Two main drivers of such rationing are identified: local administrative costs and local corruption. Administrative reforms by the center can have perverse effects. Policy implications are drawn for how to better assure that the stipulated rights are attained in practice.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25687
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Stress Testing Networks: The Case of Central Counterparties</strong></p>
<p>Richard B. Berner&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Stephen G. Cecchetti&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kermit L. Schoenholtz&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Stress tests applied to individual institutions are an important tool for evaluating financial resilience. However, financial systems are typically complex, heterogeneous and rapidly changing, raising questions about the adequacy of conventional tests. In this paper, we interpret the current stress test practice from a network perspective, highlighting central counterparties (CCPs) as an example of a critical network hub. Networks that include CCPs involve deep and broad interconnections, making stress testing a challenging task. We analyze supplementing both private and supervisory CCP stress tests with a high-frequency indicator constructed from a market-based estimate of the conditional capital shortfall (SRISK) of the CCP’s clearing members. Applying our measure to two large CCPs, we analyze how they can transmit and amplify shocks across borders, conditional on the exhaustion of prefunded resources. Our results highlight how the network created by central clearing can act as an important transmission mechanism for shocks emanating from Europe.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25686
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Macroeconomic Effects of Debt Relief: Consumer Bankruptcy Protections in the Great Recession</strong></p>
<p>Adrien Auclert&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Will S. Dobbie&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Paul Goldsmith-Pinkham&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
This paper argues that the debt forgiveness provided by the U.S. consumer bankruptcy system helped stabilize employment levels during the Great Recession. We document that over this period, states with more generous bankruptcy exemptions had significantly smaller declines in non-tradable employment and larger increases in unsecured debt write-downs compared to states with less generous exemptions. We interpret these reduced form estimates as the relative effect of debt relief across states, and develop a general equilibrium model to recover the aggregate employment effect. The model yields three key results. First, substantial nominal rigidities are required to rationalize our reduced form estimates. Second, with monetary policy at the zero lower bound, traded good demand spillovers across states boosted employment everywhere. Finally, the ex-post debt forgiveness provided by the consumer bankruptcy system during the Great Recession increased aggregate employment by almost two percent.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25685
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Automation and New Tasks: How Technology Displaces and Reinstates Labor</strong></p>
<p>Daron Acemoglu&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Pascual Restrepo&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We present a framework for understanding the effects of automation and other types of technological changes on labor demand, and use it to interpret changes in US employment over the recent past. At the center of our framework is the allocation of tasks to capital and labor—the task content of production. Automation, which enables capital to replace labor in tasks it was previously engaged in, shifts the task content of production against labor because of a displacement effect. As a result, automation always reduces the labor share in value added and may reduce labor demand even as it raises productivity. The effects of automation are counterbalanced by the creation of new tasks in which labor has a comparative advantage. The introduction of new tasks changes the task content of production in favor of labor because of a reinstatement effect, and always raises the labor share and labor demand. We show how the role of changes in the task content of production—due to automation and new tasks—can be inferred from industry-level data. Our empirical decomposition suggests that the slower growth of employment over the last three decades is accounted for by an acceleration in the displacement effect, especially in manufacturing, a weaker reinstatement effect, and slower growth of productivity than in previous decades.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25684
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Unity in Diversity? How Intergroup Contact Can Foster Nation Building</strong></p>
<p>Samuel Bazzi&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Arya Gaduh&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Alexander D. Rothenberg&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Maisy Wong&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We use a population resettlement program in Indonesia to identify long-run effects of intergroup contact on national integration. In the 1980s, the government relocated two million ethnically diverse migrants into hundreds of new communities. We find greater integration in fractionalized communities with many small groups, as measured by national language use at home, intermarriage, and children's name choices. However, in polarized communities with a few large groups, ethnic attachment increases and integration declines. Residential segregation dampens these effects. Social capital, public goods, and ethnic conflict follow similar patterns. Overall, our findings highlight the importance of localized contact in shaping identity.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25683
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Wrong Kind of AI? Artificial Intelligence and the Future of Labor Demand</strong></p>
<p>Daron Acemoglu&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Pascual Restrepo&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Artificial Intelligence is set to influence every aspect of our lives, not least the way production is organized. AI, as a technology platform, can automate tasks previously performed by labor or create new tasks and activities in which humans can be productively employed. Recent technological change has been biased towards automation, with insufficient focus on creating new tasks where labor can be productively employed. The consequences of this choice have been stagnating labor demand, declining labor share in national income, rising inequality and lower productivity growth. The current tendency is to develop AI in the direction of further automation, but this might mean missing out on the promise of the "right" kind of AI with better economic and social outcomes.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25682
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Inexpensive Heating Reduces Winter Mortality</strong></p>
<p>Janjala Chirakijja&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Seema Jayachandran&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Pinchuan Ong&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
This paper examines how the price of home heating affects mortality in the US. Exposure to cold is one reason that mortality peaks in winter, and a higher heating price increases  exposure to cold by reducing heating use. It also raises energy bills, which could affect health by decreasing other health-promoting spending. Our empirical approach combines spatial variation in the energy source used for home heating and temporal variation in the national prices of natural gas versus electricity. We find that a lower heating price reduces winter mortality, driven mostly by cardiovascular and respiratory causes.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25681
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Potential for Inward Foreign Direct Investment in Japan</strong></p>
<p>Takeo Hoshi&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kozo Kiyota&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Promotion of inward foreign direct investment (FDI) into Japan has been an important policy in the Abenomics growth strategy.  This paper examines if we observe positive impacts of the policy in the data.  We first estimate a gravity model of bilateral FDIs using data for 35 OECD countries as destination countries.  In estimating the model, we handle zero values for FDI stock explicitly.  We take the model prediction as a reasonable counterfactual and compare that to the actual inward FDI stock for Japan.  Although the actual inward FDI stock has been growing and is likely to achieve the goal of 35 trillion yen by 2020, the growth under the Abe administration has been comparable to or slightly lower than the counterfactual suggested by the estimated model.  We also estimate the model without Japan as a destination country and use the estimated model to calculate the counterfactual level of Japan’s inward FDI.  Although we expect the gap between the counterfactual and the actual become narrower if Abenomics policy has been successful, we fail to find that.  These results cast a doubt on the effectiveness of the Abenomics policies to encourage inward FDI at least as of 2015.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25680
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Improving Educational Pathways to Social Mobility: Evidence from Norway's "Reform 94"</strong></p>
<p>Marianne Bertrand&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Magne Mogstad&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jack Mountjoy&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
High school vocational education has a controversial history in the United States, largely due to a perceived tradeoff between teaching readily deployable occupational skills versus shunting mostly disadvantaged students away from the educational and career flexibility afforded by general academic courses. We study the effects of a nationwide high school reform in Norway that aimed to move beyond this tradeoff. Reform 94, implemented in one step in the fall of 1994, integrated more general education into the vocational track, offered vocational students a pathway to college through a supplementary semester of academic courses, and sought to improve the quality of the vocational track through greater access to apprenticeships. We identify the impacts of the reform through a difference-in-discontinuity research design, comparing students born just before and after the reform’s birthdate eligibility cutoff to students born around the same cutoff in placebo years. Linking multiple administrative registries covering the entire Norwegian population, we find that the reform substantially increased initial enrollment in the vocational track, but with different subsequent outcomes for different groups. More men complete the vocational track at the expense of academic diplomas, but this has no detectable impact on college-going and leads to reduced criminal activity and higher earnings in adulthood, especially among disadvantaged men. For disadvantaged women, the initial surge in vocational enrollment leads to fewer high school dropouts and more vocational degrees with the college-prep supplement, and hence an increase in the share of college-eligible women; however, this translates into only small and insignificant increases in college completion and adult earnings. We show that men overwhelmingly pursue vocational education in higher-paying skilled trade fields, while women almost exclusively pursue vocational education in lower-paying service-based fields, which helps in interpreting some of these results. Overall, the reform succeeded at improving social mobility, particularly among men, but it somewhat exacerbated the gender gap in adult earnings.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25679
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Cities, Lights, and Skills in Developing Economies</strong></p>
<p>Jonathan I. Dingel&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Antonio Miscio&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Donald R. Davis&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
In developed economies, agglomeration is skill-biased: larger cities are skill-abundant and exhibit higher skilled wage premia. This paper characterizes the spatial distributions of skills in Brazil, China, and India. To facilitate comparisons with developed-economy findings, we construct metropolitan areas for each of these economies by aggregating finer geographic units on the basis of contiguous areas of light in nighttime satellite images. Our results validate this procedure. These lights-based metropolitan areas mirror commuting-based definitions in the United States and Brazil. In China and India, which lack commuting-based definitions, lights-based metropolitan populations follow a power law, while administrative units do not. Examining variation in relative quantities and prices of skill across these metropolitan areas, we conclude that agglomeration is also skill-biased in Brazil, China, and India.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25678
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>How Financial Management Affects Institutional Investors' Portfolio Choices: Evidence from Insurers</strong></p>
<p>Shan Ge&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Michael S. Weisbach&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Many institutional investors depend on the returns they generate to fund their operations and liabilities.  How does these investors’ demand for capital affect the management of their portfolios? We address this issue using the insurance industry because insurers are large investors for which detailed portfolio data are available, and can face financial shocks from exogenous weather-related events. We find that insurers with more financial flexibility have larger portfolio weights on riskier and more illiquid assets, and have higher realized returns. Among corporate bonds, for which we can control for regulatory treatment, we find that more financially flexible insurers have larger portfolio weights on riskier and more illiquid corporate bonds. Following losses, P&C insurers decrease allocations to riskier corporate bonds. The effect of losses on allocations is likely to be causal since it holds when instrumenting for P&C losses with weather shocks. The change in allocations following losses is larger for more financially constrained insurers and during the financial crisis, suggesting that the shift toward less risky securities is driven by concerns about financial flexibility. The results highlight the importance of financial flexibility to fund operations in institutional investors’ portfolio decisions.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25677
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Toward an Understanding of the Economics of Apologies: Evidence from a Large-Scale Natural Field Experiment</strong></p>
<p>Basil Halperin&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Benjamin Ho&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;John A. List&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Ian Muir&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We use a theory of apologies to design a nationwide field experiment involving 1.5 million Uber ridesharing consumers who experienced late rides. Several insights emerge from our field experiment. First, apologies are not a panacea: the efficacy of an apology and whether it may backfire depend on how the apology is made. Second, across treatments, money speaks louder than words – the best form of apology is to include a coupon for a future trip. Third, in some cases sending an apology is worse than sending nothing at all, particularly for repeated apologies. For firms, caveat venditor should be the rule when considering apologies.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25676
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Ensemble Methods for Causal Effects in Panel Data Settings</strong></p>
<p>Susan Athey&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Mohsen Bayati&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Guido Imbens&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Zhaonan Qu&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
In many prediction problems researchers have found that combinations of prediction methods (“ensembles”) perform better than individual methods. A simple example is random forests, which combines predictions from many regression trees.</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25675
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Generational Trends in Vehicle Ownership and Use: Are Millennials Any Different?</strong></p>
<p>Christopher R. Knittel&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Elizabeth Murphy&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Anecdotes that Millennials fundamentally differ from prior generations are numerous in the popular press. One claim is that Millennials, happy to rely on public transit or ride-hailing, are less likely to own vehicles and travel less in personal vehicles than previous generations. However, in this discussion it is unclear whether these perceived differences are driven by changes in preferences or the impact of forces beyond the control of Millennials, such as the Great Recession. We empirically test whether Millennials' vehicle ownership and use preferences differ from those of previous generations using data from the US National Household Travel Survey, Census, and American Community Survey. We estimate both regression and nearest-neighbor matching models to control for the confounding effect of demographic and macroeconomic variables. We find little difference in preferences for vehicle ownership between Millennials and prior generations once we control for confounding variables. In contrast to the anecdotes, we find higher usage in terms of vehicle miles traveled (VMT) compared to Baby Boomers. Next we test whether Millennials are altering endogenous life choices that may, themselves, affect vehicles ownership and use. We find that Millennials are more likely to live in urban settings and less likely to marry by age 35, but tend to have larger families, controlling for age. On net, these other choices have a small effect on vehicle ownership, reducing the number of vehicles per household by less than one percent.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25674
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Time Variation in Risk Appetite and Uncertainty</strong></p>
<p>Geert Bekaert&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Eric C. Engstrom&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Nancy R. Xu&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We develop measures of time-varying risk aversion and economic uncertainty that are calculated from financial variables at high frequencies. We formulate a dynamic no-arbitrage asset pricing model for equities and corporate bonds. The joint dynamics among asset-specific cash flows, macroeconomic fundamentals and risk aversion feature heteroskedasticity and non-Gaussianity. Variance risk premiums on equity are very informative about risk aversion, whereas credit spreads and corporate bond volatility are highly correlated with economic uncertainty. Model-implied risk premiums outperform standard instruments for predicting excess returns on equity and corporate bonds. A financial proxy to our economic uncertainty predicts output growth significantly negatively.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25673
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Impact of the 2018 Trade War on U.S. Prices and Welfare</strong></p>
<p>Mary Amiti&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Stephen J. Redding&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;David Weinstein&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
This paper explores the impacts of the Trump administration’s trade policy on prices and welfare. Over the course of 2018, the U.S. experienced substantial increases in the prices of intermediates and final goods, dramatic changes to its supply-chain network, reductions in availability of imported varieties, and complete passthrough of the tariffs into domestic prices of imported goods. Overall, using standard economic methods, we find that the full incidence of the tariff falls on domestic consumers, with a reduction in U.S. real income of $1.4 billion per month by the end of 2018. We also see similar patterns for foreign countries who have retaliated against the U.S., which indicates that the trade war also reduced real income for other countries.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25672
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  