---
layout: post
title: "NBER March 18, 2019"
description: ""
category: 经济学
tags: [工作论文]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<p><strong>Counting Defiers</strong></p>
<p>Amanda E. Kowalski&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
The LATE monotonicity assumption of Imbens and Angrist (1994) precludes “defiers,” individuals whose treatment always runs counter to the instrument, in the terminology of Balke and Pearl (1993) and Angrist et al. (1996). I allow for defiers in a model with a binary instrument and a binary treatment. The model is explicit about the randomization process that gives rise to the instrument. I use the model to develop estimators of the counts of defiers, always takers, compliers, and never takers. I propose separate versions of the estimators for contexts in which the parameter of the randomization process is unspecified, which I intend for use with natural experiments with virtual random assignment. I present an empirical application that revisits Angrist and Evans (1998), which examines the impact of virtual random assignment of the sex of the first two children on subsequent fertility. I find that subsequent fertility is much more responsive to the sex mix of the first two children when defiers are allowed.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25671
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>A Model of a Randomized Experiment with an Application to the PROWESS Clinical Trial</strong></p>
<p>Amanda E. Kowalski&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
I develop a model of a randomized experiment with a binary intervention and a binary outcome. Potential outcomes in the intervention and control groups give rise to four types of participants. Fixing ideas such that the outcome is mortality, some participants would live regardless, others would be saved, others would be killed, and others would die regardless. These potential outcome types are not observable. However, I use the model to develop estimators of the number of participants of each type. The model relies on the randomization within the experiment and on deductive reasoning. I apply the model to an important clinical trial, the PROWESS trial, and I perform a Monte Carlo simulation calibrated to estimates from the trial. The reduced form from the trial shows a reduction in mortality, which provided a rationale for FDA approval. However, I find that the intervention killed two participants for every three it saved.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25670
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Mobile Money and Healthcare Use: Evidence from East Africa</strong></p>
<p>Haseeb Ahmed&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Benjamin W. Cowan&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
This paper uses a difference-in-difference framework to estimate the effects of mobile money transfer technology (MMT) on healthcare usage in the face of negative health shocks. We use survey data from 2013-16 with quarterly observations on about 1,600 households of 10 villages in the Kisumu region of Western Kenya. We find evidence that MMT, likely through greater ease of informal borrowing, helps households increase utilization of formal healthcare services in terms of visits to a clinic, consultation and medication expenditures in comparison with the non-users of this technology.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25669
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Monthly Payment Targeting and the Demand for Maturity</strong></p>
<p>Bronson Argyle&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Taylor D. Nadauld&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Christopher Palmer&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
In this paper, we provide evidence of the importance of monthly payments in the market for consumer installment debt. Auto debt in particular has grown rapidly since the Great Recession and has eclipsed credit cards in total debt outstanding. Auto-loan maturities have also increased such that most auto-loan originations now have a term of over 72 months. We document three phenomena we jointly refer to as monthly payment targeting. First, using data from 500,000 used auto loans and discontinuities in contract terms offered by hundreds of lenders, we show that demand is more sensitive to maturity than interest rate, consistent with consumers managing payment size when making debt decisions. Second, many consumers appear to employ segregated mental accounts, spending exogenous payment savings on larger loans. Third, consumers bunch at round-number monthly payment amounts, consistent with the use of budgeting heuristics. These patterns hold in subsamples of constrained and unconstrained borrowers, challenging liquidity constraints as a complete explanation. Our estimates suggest that borrower focus on payment size, combined with credit-supply shocks to maturity, could significantly affect aggregate outstanding debt.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25668
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>A Theory of Housing Demand Shocks</strong></p>
<p>Zheng Liu&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Pengfei Wang&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Tao Zha&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Aggregate housing demand shocks are an important source of house price fluctuations in the standard macroeconomic models, and through the collateral channel, they drive macroeconomic fluctuations. These reduced-form shocks, however, fail to generate a highly volatile price-to-rent ratio that comoves with the house price observed in the data (the “price-rent puzzle”).  We build a tractable heterogeneous-agent model that provides a microeconomic foundation for housing demand shocks.  The model predicts that a credit supply shock can generate large comovements between the house price and the price-to-rent ratio.  We provide empirical evidence from cross-country and cross-MSA data to support this theoretical prediction.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25667
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Contract Farming and Rural Transformation: Evidence from a Field Experiment in Benin</strong></p>
<p>Aminou Arouna&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jeffrey D. Michler&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jourdain C. Lokossou&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
In recent decades contract farming has emerged as a popular mechanism to encourage vertical coordination in developing country agriculture. The goal of such coordination is to better integrate smallholder farmers into the modern agricultural food system, fostering rural transformation. We use panel data from a randomized control trial to quantify the impact of different contract attributes on rural transformation and welfare of smallholder rice farmers in Benin. We vary the terms of contract, with some farmers being offered a contract that only guarantees a price, while other contracts add extension training or input loans. While all three types of contracts had positive and significant effects, we find that contracts which only included an agreement on price had nearly as large of an impact as did contracts with additional attributes. This suggests that once price uncertainty is resolved, farmers are able to address other constraints on their own.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25665
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Coalition Formation in Legislative Bargaining</strong></p>
<p>Marco Battaglini&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We propose a new model of legislative bargaining in which coalitions have different values, reflecting the fact that the policies they can pursue are constrained by the identity of the coalition members. In the model, a formateur picks a coalition and negotiates for the allocation of the surplus it is expected to generate. The formateur is free to change coalitions to seek better deals with other coalitions, but she may lose her status if bargaining breaks down, in which case a new formateur is chosen. We show that as the delay between offers goes to zero, the equilibrium allocation converges to a generalized version of a Nash Bargaining Solution in which–in contrast to the standard solution–the coalition is endogenous and determined by the relative coalitional values. A form of the hold-up problem specific to these bargaining games may lead to significant inefficiencies in the selection of the equilibrium coalition. We use the equilibrium characterization of the distortions to study the role of the head of state in avoiding (or containing) distortions. We also show that the model helps rationalizing well known empirical facts that are in conflict with the predictions of standard non-cooperative models of bargaining: the absence of significant (or even positive) premia in ministerial allocations for formateurs and their parties; the occurrence of supermajorities; and delays in reaching agreements.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25664
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Impact of Early Investments in Urban School Systems in the United States</strong></p>
<p>Ethan J. Schmick&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Allison Shertzer&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Cities in the United States dramatically expanded spending on public education in the years following World War I, with the average urban school district increasing per pupil expenditures by over 70 percent between 1916 and 1924. We provide the first evaluation of these historically unprecedented investments in public education by compiling a new dataset that links individuals to both the quality of the city school district they attended as a child and their adult outcomes. Using plausibly exogenous growth in school spending generated by anti-German sentiment, we find that school resources significantly increased educational attainment and wages later in life, particularly for the children of unskilled workers. Increases in expenditures can explain about 50 percent of the sizable increase in educational attainment of cohorts born between 1895 and 1915. However, increased spending did not close the gap in educational attainment between the children of skilled and unskilled workers, which remained constant over the period
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25663
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Trading Costs and Informational Efficiency</strong></p>
<p>Eduardo Dávila&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Cecilia Parlatore&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We study the effect of trading costs on information aggregation and acquisition in financial markets. For a given precision of investors' private information, an irrelevance result emerges when investors are ex-ante identical: price informativeness is independent of the level of trading costs. When investors are ex-ante heterogeneous, anything goes, and a change in trading costs can increase or decrease price informativeness, depending on the source of heterogeneity. Our results are valid under quadratic, linear, and fixed costs. Through a reduction in information acquisition, trading costs reduce price informativeness. We discuss how our results inform the policy debate on financial transaction taxes/Tobin taxes.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25662
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Lost Ones: the Opportunities and Outcomes of Non-College Educated Americans Born in the 1960s</strong></p>
<p>Margherita Borella&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Mariacristina De Nardi&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Fang Yang&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
White, non-college-educated Americans born in the 1960s  face shorter life expectancies, higher medical expenses, and lower wages per unit of human capital compared with those born in the 1940s, and men's wages declined more than women's. After documenting these changes, we use a life-cycle model of couples and singles to evaluate their effects. The drop in wages depressed the labor supply of men and increased that of women, especially in married couples. Their shorter life expectancy reduced their retirement savings but the increase in out-of-pocket medical expenses increased them by more. Welfare losses, measured a one-time asset compensation are 12.5%, 8%, and 7.2%  of the present discounted value of earnings for single men, couples, and single women, respectively. Lower wages explain 47-58% of these losses, shorter life expectancies 25-34%, and higher medical expenses account for the rest.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25661
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Exploitation of Labor? Classical Monopsony Power and Labor's Share</strong></p>
<p>Wyatt J. Brooks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Joseph P. Kaboski&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Yao Amber Li&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Wei Qian&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
How important is the exercise of classical monopsony power against labor for the level of wages and labor's share? We examine this in the context of China and India – two large, rapidly-growing developing economies. Using theory, we develop a novel screen to quantify how wages are affected by market power exerted in labor markets, either by a single firm or a group of cooperating firms. The theory guides the measurement of labor “markdowns”, i.e., the gap between wage and the value of the marginal product of labor, and the screen examines how they comove with local labor market share and the share of cooperating firms. Applying this test, we find that markdowns substantially lower the labor share: by up to 10 percentage points in China and 15 percentage points in India. This impact has fallen over time in both countries as firm concentration in these labor markets has decreased.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25660
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Flexible Production and Entry: Institutional, Technological, and Organizational Determinants</strong></p>
<p>Sharon Belenzon&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Victor Manuel Bennett&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Andrea Patacconi&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Academics, the media, and policymakers have all raised concerns about the implications of human workers being replaced by machines or software. Few have discussed the implications of the reverse: firms’ ability to replace capital with workers. We show that this flexibility can help new firms overcome uncertainty and increase entrepreneurial entry. We develop a simple real options model where permissive labor regulations allow firms to take advantage of capital-labor substitutability by replacing ‘rigid’ capital with ‘flexible’ labor. The model highlights institutional, technological, and organizational preconditions to using this flexibility. Using a large and comprehensive dataset on entry by standalone firms and group affiliates, we provide evidence in support of the model.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25659
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Optimal Time-Consistent Monetary, Fiscal and Debt Maturity Policy</strong></p>
<p>Eric M. Leeper&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Campbell B. Leith&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Ding Liu&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
The textbook optimal policy response to an increase in government debt is simple—monetary policy should actively target inflation, and fiscal policy should smooth taxes while ensuring debt sustainability. Such policy prescriptions presuppose an ability to commit. Without that ability,  the temptation to use inflation surprises to offset monopoly and tax distortions, as well as to reduce the real value of government debt, creates a state-dependent inflationary bias problem. High debt levels and short-term debt exacerbate the inflation bias. But this produces a debt stabilization bias because the policy maker wishes to deviate from the tax smoothing policies typically pursued under commitment, by returning government debt to steady-state. As a result, the response to shocks in New Keynesian models can be radically different, particularly when government debt levels are high.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25658
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Administrative Data Linking and Statistical Power Problems in Randomized Experiments</strong></p>
<p>Sarah Tahamont&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Zubin Jelveh&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aaron Chalfin&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Shi Yan&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Benjamin Hansen&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
The increasing availability of administrative data has led to a particularly exciting innovation in public policy research, that of the “low-cost” randomized trial in which administrative data are used to measure outcomes in lieu of costly primary data collection. Linking data from an experimental intervention to administrative records that track outcomes of interest typically requires matching datasets without a common unique identifier. In order to minimize mistaken linkages, researchers will often use “exact matching” (retaining an individual only if all their demographic variables match exactly in two or more datasets) in order to ensure that speculative matches do not lead to errors in an analytic dataset. We argue that when this approach is used to detect the presence of a binary outcome, this seemingly conservative approach leads to attenuated estimates of treatment effects, and critically, to underpowered experiments. For marginally powered studies, which are common in empirical social science, exact matching is particularly problematic. In this paper, we derive an analytic result for the consequences of linking errors on statistical power and show how the problem varies across different combinations of relevant inputs, including the matching error rate, the outcome density and the sample size. We conclude on an optimistic note by showing that machine learning-based probabilistic matching algorithms allow researchers to recover a considerable share of the statistical power that is lost to errors in data linking.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25657
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Power of the IUD: Effects of Expanding Access to Contraception Through Title X Clinics</strong></p>
<p>Andrea M. Kelly&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jason M. Lindo&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Analisa Packham&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We estimate the effect of Colorado's Family Planning Initiative, the largest program to have focused on long-acting-reversible contraceptives in the United States, which provided funds to Title X clinics so that they could make these contraceptives available to low-income women. We find substantial effects on birth rates, concentrated among women in zip codes within 7 miles of clinics: the initiative reduced births by approximately 20 percent for 15-17 year olds and 18-19 year olds living in such zip codes. We also examine how extensive media coverage of the initiative in 2014 and 2015 altered its reach. After information spread about the availability and benefits of LARCs, we find a substantial increase in LARC insertions, extended effects on births among 15-17 year olds living greater than 7 miles from clinics, and significant reductions in births among 20–24 and 25–29 year olds.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25656
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Changing Business Cycles: The Role of Women's Employment</strong></p>
<p>Stefania Albanesi&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
This paper studies the impact of changing trends in female labor supply on productivity, TFP growth and aggregate business cycles. We find that the growth in women’s labor supply and relative productivity added substantially to TFP growth from the early 1980s, even if it depressed average labor productivity growth, contributing to the 1970s productivity slowdown. We also show that the lower cyclicality of female hours and their growing share can account for a large fraction of the reduced cyclicality of aggregate hours during the great moderation, as well as the decline in the correlation between average labor productivity and hours. Finally, we show that the discontinued growth in female labor supply starting in the 1990s played a substantial role in the jobless recoveries following the 1990-1991, 2001 and 2007-2009 recessions. Moreover, it depressed aggregate hours, output growth and male wages during the late 1990s and mid 2000s expansions. These results suggest that continued growth in female employment since the early 1990s would have significantly improved economic performance in the United States.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25655
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Data Driven Regulation: Theory and Application to Missing Bids</strong></p>
<p>Sylvain Chassang&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kei Kawai&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jun Nakabayashi&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Juan M. Ortner&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We document a novel bidding pattern observed in procurement auctions from Japan: winning bids tend to be isolated. There is a missing mass of close losing bids. This pattern is suspicious in the following sense: it is inconsistent with competitive behavior under arbitrary information structures. Building on this observation, we develop a theory of data-driven regulation based on “safe tests,” i.e. tests that are passed with probability one by competitive bidders, but need not be passed by non-competitive ones. We provide a general class of safe tests exploiting weak equilibrium conditions, and show that such tests reduce the set of equilibrium strategies that cartels can use to sustain collusion. We provide an empirical exploration of various safe tests in our data, as well as discuss collusive rationales for missing bids.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25654
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Total Risk Premium Puzzle</strong></p>
<p>Òscar Jordà&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Moritz Schularick&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Alan M. Taylor&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
The risk premium puzzle is worse than you think. Using a new database for the U.S. and 15 other advanced economies from 1870 to the present that includes housing as well as equity returns (to capture the full risky capital portfolio of the representative agent), standard calculations using returns to total wealth and consumption show that: housing returns in the long run are comparable to those of equities, and yet housing returns have lower volatility and lower covariance with consumption growth than equities. The same applies to a weighted total-wealth portfolio, and over a range of horizons. As a result, the implied risk aversion parameters for housing wealth and total wealth are even larger than those for equities, often by a factor of 2 or more. We find that more exotic models cannot resolve these even bigger puzzles, and we see little role for limited participation, idiosyncratic housing risk, transaction costs, or liquidity premiums.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25653
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Evaluating Consumers' Choices of Medicare Part D Plans: A Study in Behavioral Welfare Economics</strong></p>
<p>Michael P. Keane&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jonathan D. Ketcham&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Nicolai V. Kuminoff&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Timothy Neal&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We propose new methods to model behavior and conduct welfare analysis in complex environments where some choices are unlikely to reveal preferences. We develop a mixture-of-experts model that incorporates heterogeneity in consumers’ preferences and in their choice processes. We also develop a method to decompose logit errors into latent preferences versus optimization errors. Applying these methods to Medicare beneficiaries’ prescription drug insurance choices suggests that: (1) average welfare losses from suboptimal choices are small, (2) beneficiaries with dementia and depression have larger losses, and (3) policies that simplify choice sets offer small average benefits, helping some people but harming others.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25652
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Does Mandating Social Insurance Affect Entrepreneurial Activity?</strong></p>
<p>Youssef Benzarti&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jarkko Harju&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Tuomas Matikka&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
This paper estimates the effect of relaxing the social insurance mandate on entrepreneurial activity. We use a unique discontinuity in Finland that allows certain entrepreneurs not to pay social insurance contributions on their income. Using rich administrative data, we find that relaxing the social insurance mandate leads entrepreneurs to significantly reduce their contributions, which they channel instead into their firms. While young firms use this windfall to increase business activity, older ones use it to improve their net lending position by purchasing stocks. Our results imply that the social insurance mandate is binding and its efficiency cost is heterogeneous.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25651
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Memory and Reference Prices: an Application to Rental Choice</strong></p>
<p>Pedro Bordalo&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Nicola Gennaioli&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Andrei Shleifer&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Simonsohn and Loewenstein (SL 2006) present evidence that a household moving from one US city to another tends to pay a rent level that is closer to the city of origin, relative to comparable locals.  Building on “Memory, Attention, and Choice” (BGS 2019), we show that these effects emerge from the interaction between memory and attention.  In our model, memory is a database of experiences such as rents. The current rent cues recall of past rents, giving rise to a rental norm. A large discrepancy between the current rent and the memory-based norm surprises and attracts the mover’s attention, distorting choice. Thus, when rents in Pittsburgh cue recall of rent experiences in San Francisco, they look surprisingly cheap by comparison, leading the household to spend more.  We revisit the SL evidence in light of the model.  Besides generating the basic SL findings, our model yields two new predictions, which we test and confirm using 20 additional years of data.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25650
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>How Monetary Policy Shaped the Housing Boom</strong></p>
<p>Itamar Drechsler&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Alexi Savov&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Philipp Schnabl&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Between 2003 and 2006, the Federal Reserve raised rates by 4.25%. Yet it was precisely during this period that the housing boom accelerated, fueled by rapid growth in mortgage lending.  There is deep disagreement about how, or even if, monetary policy impacted the boom. Using heterogeneity in banks' exposures to the deposits channel of monetary policy, we show that Fed tightening induced a large reduction in banks' deposit funding, leading them to contract new on-balance-sheet lending for home purchases by 26%. However, an unprecedented expansion in privately-securitized loans, led by nonbanks, largely offset this contraction. Since privately-securitized loans are neither GSE-insured nor deposit-funded, they are run-prone, which made the mortgage market fragile. Consistent with our theory, the re-emergence of privately-securitized mortgages has closely tracked the recent increase in rates.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25649
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>The Unwavering SES Achievement Gap: Trends in U.S. Student Performance</strong></p>
<p>Eric A. Hanushek&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Paul E. Peterson&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Laura M. Talpey&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Ludger Woessmann&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Concerns about the breadth of the U.S. income distribution and limited intergenerational mobility have led to a focus on educational achievement gaps by socio-economic status (SES). Using intertemporally linked assessments from NAEP, TIMSS, and PISA, we trace the achievement of U.S. student cohorts born between 1954 and 2001. Achievement gaps between the top and bottom deciles and the top and bottom quartiles of the SES distribution have been large and remarkably constant for a near half century. These unwavering gaps have not been offset by overall improvements in achievement levels, which have risen at age 14 but remained unchanged at age 17 for the most recent quarter century. The long-term failure of major educational policies to alter SES gaps suggests a need to reconsider standard approaches to mitigating disparities.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25648
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Do Minimum Wage Increases Reduce Crime?</strong></p>
<p>Zachary S. Fone&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Joseph J. Sabia&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Resul Cesur&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
An April 2016 Council of Economic Advisers (CEA) report advocated raising the minimum wage to deter crime. This recommendation rests on the assumption that minimum wage hikes increase the returns to legitimate labor market work while generating minimal adverse employment effects.  This study comprehensively assesses the impact of minimum wages on crime using data from the 1998-2016 Uniform Crime Reports (UCR), National Incident-Based Reporting System (NIBRS), and National Longitudinal Study of Youth (NLSY). Our results provide no evidence that minimum wage increases reduce crime.  Instead, we find that raising the minimum wage increases property crime arrests among those ages 16-to-24, with an estimated elasticity of 0.2. This result is strongest in counties with over 100,000 residents and persists when we use longitudinal data to isolate workers for whom minimum wages bind.  Our estimates suggest that a $15 Federal minimum wage could generate criminal externality costs of nearly $2.4 billion.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25647
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>SNAP and Paycheck Cycles</strong></p>
<p>Timothy K.M. Beatty&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Marianne P. Bitler&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Xinzhe Huang Cheng&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Cynthia van der Werf&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
It is well documented that individuals do not spend SNAP benefits smoothly over the month after receipt. Rather, recipients spend a disproportionate share of benefits at the beginning of the benefit month. This has costs for recipients and stores. There is also evidence that other income streams, such as Social Security and paychecks, are not spent smoothly. The presence of these other income streams may bias estimates of the effects of this SNAP cycle on consumption for working SNAP beneficiaries and those who receive other government benefits. We use data from USDA’s National Household Food Acquisition and Purchase Survey to explore how the SNAP cycle is affected by accounting for these other income streams. We find suggestive evidence that the cycle is more pronounced for workers who are paid on a weekly or monthly basis, but little evidence that cycles in other income streams mitigate or exacerbate the SNAP cycle.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25635
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  

<p><strong>Income Changes and Intimate Partner Violence: Evidence from Unconditional Cash Transfers in Kenya</strong></p>
<p>Johannes Haushofer&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Charlotte Ringdal&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jeremy P. Shapiro&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Xiao Yu Wang&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
We study the impact of randomized unconditional cash transfers to both men and women on intimate partner violence in Kenya. Transfers to women averaging USD 709 reduced physical and sexual violence (–0.26, –0.22 standard deviations). Transfers to men reduced only physical violence (–0.18 SD). We find evidence of spillovers: physical violence towards non-recipient women in treatment villages decreased (–0.16 SD). We show theoretically that transfers to both men and women are needed to understand why violence occurs. Our theory suggests that husbands use physical violence to extract resources, but dislike it, while the converse may be true for sexual violence.
</p>
<p><strong>DOI</strong>:10.3386/w25627
</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
  